{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 I began my work as an undergraduate\par
where I studied comparative literature.\par
And I also was very interested in math and computer science.\par
It was only when I finished an undergraduate degree\par
that I learned about this field of natural language processing\par
where I could bring together the two interests.\par
In around the '90s, the natural language processing field\par
began exploding with data.\par
We were gathering data online.\par
It was about this time that people began collecting corpora\par
that we could develop systems on, train them, and test them.\par
For example, it was at this time that the linguistic data\par
consortium was formed, and it developed\par
a number of different corpora, usually\par
from the Wall Street Journal.\par
But for example, one of the corpora that they developed\par
would have markings for a part of speech of each word.\par
And from that, we moved to a different paradigm\par
where we developed tools that learn from that annotated data\par
how to automatically produce the tag.\par
So at this point in time, we began\par
developing very accurate tools for the basic parts\par
of natural language processing, part of speech tagging,\par
and parsing.\par
I personally am very interested in applications and problems,\par
so I love it when I talk to somebody\par
who has a lot of language data and they'd\par
like to be able to use it or do something with it.\par
And we can work together to figure out how to do that.\par
Well in graduate school, I studied machine learning.\par
My adviser was a joint appointment in computer science\par
and statistics, and so, through studying with him,\par
I started taking a lot of statistics courses.\par
And that's where I became excited\par
about the intersection of machine learning\par
and statistics.\par
To some people, machine learning is statistics.\par
I'm sort of one of those people.\par
And so, in my Ph.D., I really studied a lot of ideas\par
in both fields, in computer science and statistics.\par
And in my Ph.D., this was in the late '90s,\par
I took a course about text analysis.\par
And I got excited about analyzing document collections,\par
partly because I had intuitions about the data,\par
because I can have intuitions about articles and documents\par
that I understand, and because the data fit on my hard drive.\par
So I would analyze 10,000 documents,\par
but 10,000 documents is not that big,\par
and easily sits on a hard drive in 1998 or 1999.\par
So I got involved in doing text analysis, and, in particular,\par
we got involved in doing unsupervised learning of text\par
analysis, which means taking a big collection of text\par
without any assumptions, or any labels, or any metadata,\par
and understanding what are the hidden patterns that\par
play in those documents.\par
So I got interested in that in graduate school.\par
And then, since graduate school, did a postdoc working\par
with natural language processing at Carnegie Mellon.\par
I was in grad school at Berkeley.\par
And then I was a professor for a while at Princeton,\par
and then came here in the last two years\par
to be part of the data science institute,\par
to be part of defining this new field of data science.\par
When I reflect on it, my journey toward the field\par
of data science began over 20 years ago,\par
really, with the basic love of mathematics\par
and moving into the field of statistics and biostatistics,\par
the necessary aspects of computing,\par
and then the nature of the work that I do really\par
requires team science.\par
And I view data science really, at its heart,\par
an interdisciplinary field that brings experts\par
from many different areas.\par
So my research program, over the last 15 years,\par
and in an imaging, I think, really even\par
proceeded popular use of the term of data science.\par
So it's exciting for me to see that data science has\par
so many applications.\par
So I got excited by data science when I first started really\par
doing AI and computer vision.\par
And there, the goal was to make systems\par
that would recognize a face.\par
And we started writing rules and saying, well if the eyes are\par
this far apart, and if the nose is\par
this proportion of the width of the mouth,\par
then it's this person, or it's that person.\par
And these rules and these kinds of ideas\par
only went so far, because we were\par
trying to think of how we, as human beings,\par
were solving an intelligent problem.\par
But it turns out, it's much better\par
to just show the computer thousands and millions\par
of images of faces and let it start\par
to figure out what are the valuable rules on its own.\par
So it's much better to teach people by showing them\par
and by letting them do things.\par
And I think it's also much better teach machines\par
by showing them and letting them explore their own hypotheses,\par
rather than writing a recipe of intelligence,\par
or a recipe of face recognition for the machine.\par
When I first was told about the opportunity at the Data Science\par
Institute at Columbia, I was working for a defense\par
contractor and I was doing very, very exciting technology.\par
Some of it was actually in the area of data science,\par
and I said, I'm really busy, I love\par
what I do, and don't bother me.\par
But then I started to think and I\par
need to realized that this is a really unique moment in time.\par
This is like being asked to be invited in to a start\par
up at Columbia University.\par
How would you say no to that?\par
And so I said yes, and here I am.\par
I majored in mathematics because it can easily\par
and I didn't have to work very hard.\par
I graduated, though, with a feeling like I really\par
didn't have a big picture about what math was about, because I\par
kind of skated through.\par
So I applied to a master's program at Berkeley in math,\par
thinking that I could maybe integrate everything together.\par
Somewhere along the line, I took a statistics class and went,\par
oh I can do this?\par
And that was like the first little bit.\par
And then, after my first year in the graduate program\par
in statistics, I spent the summer at Bell Laboratories.\par
And then, right, and that was the moment, right?\par
I sat with some of the most talented statisticians\par
in the world, some of the most amazing, I'm just going to call\par
it, storytellers in the world.\par
People who could sit with a data set and pull out the stories,\par
pull out what was essentially going on there\par
in a way that inherited from the legacy of John Tukey, that\par
was so astounding.\par
And then, I had the great fortune\par
of working there for 10 years after getting my Ph.D.\par
And that's how I started.\par
My first experience with data science\par
was as an undergraduate.\par
I was exposed to a lab that was studying the simulation\par
of the immune system.\par
And at that point, I was fascinated by the possibilities\par
of being able to gain insights about a system\par
such as the immune system, the system that is\par
so complex, through simulation.\par
Subsequently, I went to medical school,\par
developed a deeper understanding of how things function\par
normally, and when they don't function so normally\par
in the human body.\par
And that gave me insight into how\par
we could leverage the data that is generated in health\par
care to understand the physiologic processes that\par
occur, and better understand the effects of the interventions\par
that we apply in health care.\par
Well, the fields that I work in are mainly\par
quantitative finance and risk management, as well as\par
operations research, which is the science of decision making.\par
Now, data actually plays a big role in both of those fields.\par
Perhaps not as big a role in operations research\par
as it should have in the past, but I think\par
people are becoming very aware, now,\par
that data needs to inform decisions.\par
And so, you see in those fields, data science playing\par
a bigger and bigger role.\par
On top of that, a lot of the methodologies, the algorithms,\par
are just of interest to me anyway.\par
The nerds side of me enjoys the stuff.\par
I mean, I was trained as a civil engineer.\par
And when I got into research, the way\par
that we're traditionally taught to do research\par
is hypothesis testing.\par
So you have a hypothesis, you go and gather a data set,\par
you look at whether your data set proves or disproves\par
your hypothesis, and so it goes.\par
But as we move into the 21st century,\par
I think the challenges that we face\par
as engineers are only going to become more complicated.\par
And it's really difficult to address those challenges\par
through hypothesis testing.\par
I mean, for example, if you want to know\par
how a city functions, it's difficult to say,\par
have a hypothesis about that.\par
And so, I became more and more interested in how\par
data could solve some of these problems,\par
or how data could answer some of these questions.\par
And my research group started to gather very, very large data\par
sets, and we started to use the analysis of those data\par
sets to tell us what was driving some of the behavior\par
that we were seeing.\par
And that's how I got into data science.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 