{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So a data scientist of today needs\par
to know the foundations of data science.\par
This would include the theory, the mathematical foundations,\par
statistics behind how we do prediction and analysis\par
of data.\par
They would need some computer science approaches.\par
So for example, they would need to know about machine learning.\par
They would also need to know a bit\par
about the kind of processing we have\par
to do when we have big data algorithms for big data.\par
Storing of big data, accessing of big data,\par
parallel approaches to processing.\par
And then I think it's really important for people\par
to see how data science can be applied to real-world problems.\par
There are these three fields, computer science, statistics,\par
and optimization.\par
And I think that a modern data scientist\par
should be versed in all three fields to some degree.\par
In computer science, knowing things about algorithms,\par
about machine learning, about complexity theory\par
is very important.\par
In statistics, knowing about inference,\par
knowing about Bayesian statistics\par
and probabilistic modeling, knowing probability theory.\par
These are very important tools.\par
And in optimization, knowing about, well, the name\par
says it all-- knowing about how to optimize\par
complicated functions with respect to their parameters\par
is essential.\par
And when you start studying data science,\par
you see that these three fields intertwine.\par
As much computing as one can obtain I think\par
is beneficial, and beginning just\par
with the process of programming and the logic of programming.\par
Those skills translate very, very naturally to data science.\par
Coming from my own discipline in biostatistics,\par
I think statistical reasoning is also very important,\par
and it's beyond just the tools that you acquire\par
in the context of a course, it's a way\par
of thinking that allows you to bring\par
a certain element of problem solving,\par
and join with many others who are\par
key players in data science.\par
Colombia has a great program in data science,\par
and we're trying to blend, let's say,\par
background from different departments and fields.\par
So you need things like computation, computer science,\par
databases to understand how to extract information from data,\par
let's say.\par
But you also need things that come from other departments,\par
like optimization, which comes from\par
our industrial engineering, operations research department.\par
You definitely need a lot of statistics courses,\par
because statistics is interested in inverse problems,\par
getting the model that generated the data, kind\par
of working backwards that way.\par
Electrical engineering courses are also important.\par
Information theory is another approach\par
to, again, solving inverse problems\par
of understanding the phenomenon that led to the data.\par
So I think it really is a multi-departmental initiative,\par
and the best way to learn about it\par
is to take courses that are offered\par
by all these different scholars and fields,\par
and we're bringing that together, I think, really\par
nicely at Columbia through our data science program.\par
So something that is really important\par
and I think unique and special about the Data Science\par
Institute at Columbia is that it's\par
a university-level engagement.\par
So faculty from across the university\par
were housed in the School of Engineering,\par
because there's a tremendous strength\par
in the School of Engineering, but you need\par
all of that domain expertise.\par
You need medical school, you need public health,\par
you need the law school.\par
There's a little bit of data science organically\par
in every single school here, but then you\par
need that umbrella, and that framework, and those tools\par
to really understand what it means to be a data scientist.\par
That machine learning, natural language processing,\par
that strong statistics background\par
that you need to be able to apply it to those domains.\par
So what you really need is a combination of faculty teaching\par
you in domains and in the data science at large,\par
in terms of those fundamental tools.\par
So there's a hard and a soft skill set\par
requirement in data science.\par
So the hard skills include-- for machine learning--\par
a broad understanding of machine learning so that you know\par
the right tool for the right job, a deep understanding\par
of machine learning so that you know how to extend\par
each one of those machine learning methods to apply\par
to a particular data set.\par
There's an additional hard skill set\par
needed in computation, like data analysis is done on a computer.\par
You do not do data analysis with pencil and paper entirely.\par
At some point somebody gives you the data,\par
and it's a file on a computer, or it's an API stream.\par
So computational skills and good software engineering,\par
or what you might call computational hygiene,\par
are going to be necessary.\par
And it's also, on the soft side, a very collaborative effort.\par
If you are applying machine learning\par
to a different domain, what's hidden in the phrase applying\par
is listening to somebody from the real world speaking\par
and learning their language so that you understand\par
how to reframe their challenges as machine learning tasks.\par
And then interpreting your machine learning in such a way\par
that you can communicate to somebody what you've learned\par
by analyzing their data set.\par
So there's a soft set of skills, and the ability to listen,\par
and the ability to come to see how the problems of a domain\par
can be reframed as machine learning tasks.\par
And I think also some of those soft skills bleed over\par
into the way you are as a technical collaborator.\par
So just collaboration skills with other people\par
who are computational.\par
There are the obvious skills.\par
A data scientist needs be able to manage\par
large amounts of data, they need to be able to program.\par
So basically, they need to be able to handle\par
lots of different programming languages,\par
but more in a scripting sense.\par
They've got to be able to be a data munger\par
and move data around from different platforms\par
and different sources.\par
They need to be able to program well.\par
They need to process massive amounts of data.\par
So in order to do that, you must program well.\par
But very importantly, as well, I think\par
they need to understand the techniques behind the data\par
science algorithms.\par
Many times these algorithms are used\par
as a black box, and the user, while they\par
can code, while they may not really\par
know what they're using, what the algorithm actually does,\par
what the strengths and weaknesses of the algorithms\par
are.\par
And when data and algorithms are used in that way,\par
that's often a recipe for mistakes.\par
So I think a good data scientist also\par
needs to understand the strengths and weaknesses\par
of their algorithms, and ought to be\par
open to hidden biases that might creep into their analysis.\par
Finally, curiosity.\par
Curiosity is great in every field,\par
and it's very important in data science, as well.\par
I think its essential for data scientists\par
to have a training in probability and statistics.\par
It's also important for them to have\par
a training in some of the computational techniques that\par
are used in everyday data science applications,\par
such as machine learning.\par
They also need to understand how to explore their data\par
set before they analyze it.\par
So exploratory data analysis and visualization\par
is also an essential skill.\par
And, finally, they need to have an application space.\par
So they need to have an understanding\par
of a domain such as health care, such as journalism,\par
such as business, such as finance.\par
They need to have some understanding in a domain\par
so that they can actually apply the data science\par
skills in a real-world situation and solve real problems.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 