{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So let me talk about odds ratios and describe\par
what an odds ratio is, because we're\par
going to be using odds ratios in what follows.\par
So odds ratios are related to probabilities.\par
So for instance, supposing in a given context, in a study\par
we were looking at, for example, the association\par
between a particular drug, let's say warfarin,\par
and a particular side effect, let's say acute liver injury.\par
So we might be interested in that context\par
in, to begin with, let's say the probability of getting\par
acute liver injury, let me just write ALI,\par
acute liver injury, given that, this bar here you\par
read that as given that, a given patient has consumed warfarin,\par
which is a drug that's been on the market for many decades.\par
I have no idea if it causes acute liver injury or not.\par
In fact I'm fairly sure it doesn't.\par
So that might be the kind of basic quantity\par
that we're interested in.\par
Given that you consume warfarin, what's the probability that you\par
have an acute liver injury, say within some period of time,\par
within six months, or within a year, or within a month,\par
or whatever.\par
I'll skip over that detail.\par
So that's the chance that it happens to you\par
when you consume warfarin.\par
That's PR standing for probability.\par
Now closer related to the idea of a probability\par
is the notion of odds.\par
So this is probability, the probability\par
of getting acute liver injury given that you get warfarin.\par
The odds of getting acute liver injury,\par
given that you take warfarin is defined\par
as the probability of having an acute liver injury given\par
warfarin, I'll just write W for short, divided\par
by the probability of not getting acute liver\par
injury, which I'll just write as ALI with a bar over it,\par
given that you consume warfarin.\par
So for example, let's do a numerical example,\par
supposing the probability of having an acute liver\par
injury given that you take warfarin,\par
supposing it is 0.2, which would be rather high.\par
I don't believe it's as high as that.\par
Then the odds of acute liver injury\par
given that you consume warfarin would\par
be the probability of having acute liver injury given\par
that you consume warfarin divided by the probability\par
that you do not experience an acute liver injury given\par
that you take warfarin, so a 0.2 over 0.8,\par
which is just a quarter, 0.25.\par
So in this case, the odds of experiencing an acute liver\par
injury are a quarter, given that you take warfarin,\par
a quarter, 1 in 4, 1 to 4.\par
So that's the idea of odds.\par
And if I tell you what the probability is,\par
you can work out what the odds are.\par
That's what I just did.\par
And with simple algebra, you can also go the other direction.\par
If I tell you what the odds are, you\par
can work backwards and figure out what the probability is.\par
So that's very important.\par
There's a 1 to 1 correspondence between odds and probability.\par
Some people are most comfortable thinking\par
in terms of probability, I'm in that camp.\par
Other people are actually more comfortable thinking\par
in terms of the odds of something happening.\par
And a particular people who are familiar with betting\par
in different contexts often like to use odds.\par
But there's an equivalence here.\par
It's a matter of preference.\par
You can get from one to the other.\par
OK, so that's the notion of the odds of something happening.\par
So then, finally, what's an odds ratio.\par
Well an odds ratio is a ratio of two odds.\par
So for instance, supposing you wanted\par
to compute the odds ratio of experiencing acute liver\par
injury given that you take warfarin,\par
as against a situation where you don't consume warfarin.\par
Or perhaps you consume a different drug\par
other than warfarin.\par
So in that case, it would be the odds,\par
let me write this like this, the odds of having an acute liver\par
injury given that you consume warfarin, that's this guy,\par
divided by the odds of having an acute liver injury given\par
that you consume a different drug.\par
So for instance, in this case, let's say\par
warfarin is a blood thinner, so there's a drug called pradaxa\par
which is on the market which is a different blood thinner,\par
let me just write p for pradaxa.\par
So an odds ratio would be what are\par
the odds of having acute liver injury given that you're\par
on warfarin divided by the odds of having an acute liver\par
injury given that you take a competing drug,\par
and alternative drug, called pradaxa.\par
So in this case, let's imagine that the odds-- well, we\par
just computed for warfarin fictitious numbers, the odds\par
of having an acute liver injury given that you\par
took warfarin are 0.25.\par
Let's say the odds of having an acute liver injury given\par
that you take pradaxa are, pick an example,\par
say 0.125, meaning the odds of having an acute liver\par
injury on pradaxa are precisely half the odds\par
of having an acute liver injury given that you're on warfarin.\par
Then the ratio of those two odds is\par
2 in this particular context.\par
So we're saying that, on the scale of odds,\par
you're twice as likely to have an acute liver injury given\par
that you take warfarin as compared\par
to the odds of having acute liver injury given\par
that you take pradaxa.\par
So let's look at this idea of an odds ratio\par
in the context of some actual data, an actual sample.\par
So imagine the following.\par
Imagine you have gathered data on some patients that consumed\par
warfarin, that'll be in the top row of the table,\par
and by comparison, patients who took the drug pradaxa.\par
So let's imagine you have 50 patients who took warfarin\par
and, for argument's sake, let's say there are\par
100 patients that took pradaxa.\par
And then let's see how many patients\par
experienced acute liver injury.\par
On warfarin, of the 50 patients, how many\par
did not experience an acute liver injury?\par
So it could be that, in your data,\par
10 patients experienced acute liver injury,\par
10 of the patients who consumed warfarin experienced a liver\par
injury, and 40 did not.\par
And on pradaxa and these numbers are\par
consistent with the probabilities\par
that we used in the previous definition,\par
it could be that 10 patients also experienced an acute liver\par
injury, but 90 did not.\par
So imagine that's what the data looked like.\par
So now with the odds ratio be?\par
Well it's the odds of having an acute liver injury given\par
that you're on warfarin, that's the probability of having\par
an acute liver injury, that's 10/50 divided by 40/50.\par
So the odds, in this case it's 10/50 divided by 40/50,\par
it's the odds of having an acute liver injury given\par
that you take warfarin, just like we\par
talked with a minute ago.\par
And obviously the 50s cancel here, top and bottom.\par
So this is just 10/40.\par
So it's as simple as that, that the ratio of acute liver\par
injury to not acute liver injury on the warfarin patients\par
is 1 to 4.\par
That's the odds in this case, 1 to 4, or 0.25, or a quarter.\par
That the odds of having an acute liver injury\par
given that you're on warfarin.\par
And then similarly, the odds of having an acute liver\par
injury given that you're on pradaxa\par
is going to be just 10/90.\par
Again the 100 will cancel, right?\par
And then the odds ratio is just the ratio of these two numbers.\par
So the odds ratio is 10/40 divided\par
by 10/90, which just usual arithmetic with fractions,\par
that's the same as 10/40 times 90/10.\par
So what you can see very simply, when\par
you're presented with a two by to a table like this,\par
the odds ratio is just this number\par
times that number divided by this number times that number,\par
and that's precisely what we have there.\par
So earlier we looked at some example health care studies\par
from the health literature.\par
And as we saw, it's very common for people\par
to do observational studies in large health care databases\par
that are now fairly readily available.\par
And typically, when people conduct\par
a study of, for example, the effect of a drug\par
or the effect of some kind of medical intervention in one\par
of these databases, they typically produce,\par
at the end of the day, a statistical artifact.\par
They'll typically produce something\par
like an odds ratio, or a relative risk,\par
and an associated 95% confidence interval.\par
So the typical paper might conclude\par
that the risk of GI bleeding when you're on warfarin is 1.4.\par
It's a relative risk.\par
And an associated 95% confidence interval\par
that goes from 1.1 to 1.8.\par
That would be very typical.\par
So that's a 95% confidence interval.\par
Now meaning what we expect is that 95%\par
of the intervals constructed in this manner\par
should contain the true relative risk of having\par
a GI bleed when you take warfarin,\par
and 5% of the intervals should not.\par
So that's how we interpret a 95% confident interval.\par
And the width of this interval is, of course, very important.\par
So in this particular case, the result\par
is statistically significant, meaning the interval\par
does not include 1.\par
So with 95% confidence, in a particular technical sense,\par
we're fairly sure that the true relative risk exceeds 1,\par
in this context.\par
On the other hand, if this interval had gone from say 0.2\par
to 10, we would be quite on unsure.\par
It could still be an estimate relative risk of 1.4,\par
but we would have a whole lot more uncertainty,\par
and would proceed, perhaps, make our decisions of whether\par
or not to take warfarin in a very different way.\par
So the statistical methods that produce artifacts\par
like this 95% confidence interval\par
make a whole series of assumptions about the data\par
that you have and their relationship\par
to the true association between, in this case,\par
warfarin and GI bleeding.\par
So for example, one of the assumptions underlying this\par
is that there is no measurement error.\par
So meaning that the method assumes\par
that you are able to measure accurately whether or not\par
every single person that did this\par
took warfarin or did not take warfarin.\par
And you also are assuming that you're\par
able to perfectly measure whether or not\par
each person the database had a GI bleed.\par
And we know this is not correct.\par
We know all that, in these databases,\par
there are problems with sensitivity and specificity.\par
Meaning there could be some people who\par
had a GI bleed that we miss, and there\par
could be some people who were recorded in the database\par
as having a GI bleed who did not in fact have a GI bleed.\par
But the method that produced the confidence\par
interval, the 95% confident interval, assumes this\par
is not the case.\par
And the methods underlying these also\par
assume that there is no selection bias.\par
So we're trying to make inference\par
about the effect of warfarin in the general population.\par
Well then it better be the case that the patients that\par
are in the database are representative\par
of that population, and that might or might not be the case.\par
So for example, many of the databases that are widely\par
used in the literature are so-called administrative claims\par
databases.\par
Well for a patient to have data in a database like that,\par
that means they have to have health insurance of some sort.\par
So that leads to a question, are the folks, the patients who\par
have health insurance, are they similar with regard\par
to the effect of warfarin to patients\par
who do not have health insurance?\par
And the assumption is that, indeed, that they are similar,\par
but that may or may not be the case.\par
And that's just one example of a potential selection bias.\par
And another assumption that, essentially,\par
all of these methods make is that there\par
are no unmeasured confounders.\par
So what that means is, so in conducting a study like this,\par
you're comparing, let's say, people who took warfarin with,\par
typically, you would use a comparator.\par
You'd compare warfarin use to the use of another blood\par
thinner, let's say pradaxa, the example we've used before.\par
So what you going to do is, in this database,\par
you're going to observe some patients who took warfarin,\par
you're going to observe some patients who took pradaxa,\par
and you're going to compare their rate of GI bleed.\par
Now these two groups of patients differ in one way.\par
They differ in the fact that these people\par
took warfarin and these people took pradaxa.\par
But there's a fundamental problem\par
which is, they may differ in other ways.\par
So it could be that all of the patients who\par
took warfarin are older and the patients who\par
took pradaxa are younger and the GI bleed,\par
let's say the GI bleed rate is higher on warfarin, it could\par
be because they are older people,\par
not because they took warfarin.\par
So that's an example of a confounder,\par
of potential confounder.\par
That confounder is measured, meaning\par
we probably do have a recording of the patient's\par
age in the database, but what if it's something\par
that we never measured?\par
So supposing it's exercise patterns or exercise behavior.\par
Maybe it's the case that folks who exercise\par
are less likely to have a GI bleed.\par
And maybe physicians are more likely to prescribe warfarin\par
to people who are fit and exercise than they\par
are to prescribe pradaxa.\par
I don't know if that's true, but it could be true.\par
And the methods underlying this confidence interval\par
assume that no such unmeasured confounders exist.\par
So the point I'm trying to make is,\par
when we conduct analysis like this,\par
we make a variety of assumptions.\par
And at least the possibility exists that these assumptions\par
are invalid.\par
And if these assumptions are invalid the consequence of that\par
is, when we produce a 95% confidence interval,\par
we actually have no idea what the operating characteristics\par
are of that confidence interval.\par
Maybe it contains the truth 95% of the time.\par
But maybe it contains the truth 50% of the time,\par
or 70% percent of the time, or 20% percent of the time.\par
We simply don't know.\par
And that's a major limitation of observational studies\par
as they are currently executed in large health care databases.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 