{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So let me describe the OMOP experiment.\par
And this experiment was conducted over a three year\par
period.\par
There was a large number of people involved in this.\par
And so this picture here explains\par
the sort of overall layout of the OMOP experiment.\par
But let me explain it piece by piece.\par
So we did the following.\par
The first thing we did was we acquired 10 different data\par
sources.\par
So 10 large scale patient level databases.\par
Some of these are claims databases and some of them\par
were electronic health record databases.\par
Together, the union of these databases\par
contained about 200 million lives.\par
So this is large scale data.\par
And in each case, there were complete medical records.\par
So we had a record of multiple years, in most cases.\par
Multiple years of medical records for each patient\par
covering their conditions, drugs, diagnosis, and so on.\par
I'll get into this in a little more detail in a second.\par
We then took these databases and we mapped them\par
to a common data model.\par
And this is the so-called OMOP Common Data Model.\par
And it's open source.\par
It's available on the web.\par
It's now in Version 4.\par
And in fact, quite a large number\par
of databases now around the world\par
have been mapped-- of the order of 50 or 60 databases\par
have been mapped to the OMOP Common Data Model.\par
So the basic idea is you take the 10 databases, which\par
in this experiment, we took these 10 databases which\par
are all using different dictionaries\par
and different formats and different schema and so on,\par
and mapped them to a single common data model.\par
So a common nomenclature for conditions and for drugs\par
and so on.\par
And a common database schema.\par
So I'm not going into this in any great detail,\par
but there's a schematic of what I just described.\par
So take the different databases in their different formats\par
and map them to a common format so\par
that we can conduct an analysis across all\par
of the databases seamlessly.\par
This is a schematic of the OMOP Common Data Model.\par
So just to give you an idea of some of the details.\par
And there is, for example, a Person table.\par
It's is a relational database.\par
There's a Person table in the OMOP Common Data Model.\par
And there's a key for that table, which is the Person ID.\par
And then in that table we store gender, year of birth,\par
month of birth, and so on and so forth.\par
So basic demographic information about each person\par
in the database.\par
There's another table.\par
This is the Condition Occurrence table.\par
So when you have an encounter with the medical system using\par
an outpatient context or an inpatient context,\par
you may or may not receive some diagnosis,\par
have some conditions diagnosed.\par
When that happens, and in this table,\par
we have the Condition Occurrence ID.\par
That's the key into the table.\par
And then the Person ID that links it to the person.\par
And then the concept idea of that condition and so on.\par
Some basic information about the condition\par
that has been diagnosed.\par
Similarly with drugs.\par
This is a Drug Cost table.\par
And that stores information on the costs\par
associated with drugs.\par
So not going into great detail here, but the point is we\par
mapped these very diverse databases\par
to a single common data model in a way\par
that the intention is to be as high fidelity as\par
possible, to maintain the integrity of the original data.\par
But the crucial thing is, once you've mapped these databases\par
to the common data model, you can then\par
use the same analysis tools across all of the databases.\par
So the last piece of the-- or I suppose\par
second to last piece of the experimental setup\par
is we then implemented, in software-- mostly\par
in SAS, but also in ORA, and there's some C implementations\par
and what have you-- essentially all of the standard methods.\par
The standard analytic methods that\par
are in use, in the literature on observational studies in health\par
care.\par
So for example, we implemented a new user so-called inception\par
cohort design using propensity scoring.\par
We implemented a variety of case control methods.\par
We implemented a number of methods\par
that used high dimensional logistic regression, and so on.\par
So all told, we actually implemented\par
14 different classes of methods of epidemiological designs\par
that were intended to cover essentially all of the methods\par
that one finds routinely in the literature.\par
And they're mostly standard approaches, like cohort\par
methods, case control methods, self control case series.\par
And then some other methods that are statistical approaches\par
and pharmacovigilance approaches that are\par
adapted for longitudinal data.\par
So we implemented in software.\par
It's all open source.\par
It's available on the OMOP website, omop.org.\par
Implemented all of these methods.\par
And they are designed to run against the OMOP Common Data\par
Model.\par
So they're designed, in every case, to estimate effect sizes.\par
So to estimate the effect size of a-- relation\par
to a drug and a condition.\par
We then ran all of these methods set up\par
in a variety of different ways.\par
All of these methods come with parameters or analytic choices\par
that are encoded in software.\par
So we ran all of the methods with essentially\par
all possible settings of these analytic choices against all 10\par
of the databases for, in the case\par
of the first round of the OMOP experiments,\par
against a set of controls.\par
And that's what's represented in the matrix here at the bottom.\par
So let me just explain this a little bit.\par
So along the top, you can see 10 drugs.\par
And these are older drugs for which\par
there's a fairly good understanding\par
of how these drugs work and what they do.\par
So these are drugs like the ACE inhibitors and Amphotericin B,\par
and so on.\par
And on each row is an outcome, an adverse effect, if you will.\par
And then the cells in this table are color coded as follows.\par
So the red cells are what we refer to as positive controls.\par
So as you can see, for ACE inhibitors and angioedema,\par
in the top left corner, that's a red cell.\par
And what that indicates is that we believe that ACE\par
inhibitors cause angioedema.\par
That there's a positive association between ACE\par
inhibitors and angioedema.\par
This is derived from extensive literature from data\par
and clinical trials and so on.\par
So we're very confident that there is an association there.\par
So that's a positive control.\par
And right below that, we have a blue cell for ACE inhibitors\par
and aplastic anemia.\par
And that's a negative control.\par
Meaning we do not believe that ACE inhibitors\par
cause aplastic anemia.\par
So there is no evidence of any sort\par
in the literature, any sort of a powered observational study\par
or a randomized trial, that would\par
suggest that ACE inhibitors cause aplastic anemia.\par
So we believe the true effect size, in this particular case,\par
is one, is unity.\par
Taking ACE inhibitors does not make\par
it more likely or less likely that you will\par
experience aplastic anemia.\par
Now this is, of course-- there's some uncertainty associated\par
with these classifications.\par
We're very confident that there is no association in this case,\par
and that there is one for ACE inhibitors and angioedema.\par
But some of the methods that we worked on at a later stage\par
tried to take into account the possible uncertainty\par
about the status of these controls.\par
But in any event, for now, what we're working with here\par
is a set of positive controls and a set of negative controls.\par
And the basic idea of this experiment\par
was to see how well do the standard methods that\par
are in use in the health care literature,\par
how well do the standard methods do\par
at discriminating between positive controls\par
and negative controls?\par
So adequately powered studies in these large databases\par
ought to return a null estimate for the blues.\par
If we conduct a study in one of these databases\par
of ACE inhibitors and aplastic anemia,\par
we do not expect to find a significant effect.\par
And similarly, if we conduct a study of ACE inhibitors\par
and angioedema, then we would expect to find an association\par
when we conduct a study.\par
So that's the basic setup.\par
For the white cells in the table,\par
there there's too much uncertainty.\par
So there's conflicting evidence in the literature\par
as to whether there is or is not an association.\par
So they're omitted from this experiment.\par
And the couple of green cells are positive associations,\par
which we, in this particular experiment,\par
we were focused on adverse effects of drugs\par
rather than positive effects.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 