{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 We now have available to us very large scale patient data,\par
observational patient data, so medical record databases\par
with literally hundreds of millions of patients\par
represented in the databases.\par
And there's great optimism about using these data to inform\par
health care decisions.\par
So the reality is even today, many health care decisions\par
like which drug to give a patient newly\par
diagnosed with depression, for example,\par
or newly diagnosed with diabetes,\par
questions like that, we don't actually\par
have solid evidence from randomized controlled trials.\par
So the hope would be that by using these very large scale\par
databases, where there are large numbers of patients newly\par
diagnosed with depression, for example, that we could learn\par
from these databases which treatment is\par
most effective for any given patient.\par
So this is important work.\par
What we've learned in the last two years\par
is that this is perhaps more difficult\par
than we had first thought.\par
And just because you have three million patients\par
in your database that are newly diagnosed with depression, that\par
does not mean that you necessarily,\par
in some straightforward way, can figure out\par
what's the best treatment for any given patient.\par
There are many challenges associated\par
with using these data.\par
These challenges range from classic statistical problems\par
like unmeasured confounding to measurement error\par
to selection bias to various kinds of trends and secular\par
events that occur in these data that can confound analysis\par
in various ways.\par
So the potential is enormous for using\par
these data to improve health care\par
and to make health care truly evidence-based,\par
which it certainly isn't right now.\par
It's only partly evidence-based right now.\par
So there's great potential for using these data.\par
But we need to be cautious and not get ahead of ourselves.\par
So we, in the work that we've done,\par
trying to understand, empirically understand,\par
how well observational studies work,\par
we witnessed a plethora of problems,\par
all the classical problems of unmeasured confounding,\par
measured confounding, model misspecification, missing data,\par
erroneous data, selection bias, and on and on.\par
So the challenges that we saw are diverse and not\par
so simple to necessarily deal with.\par
So, for example, in any health care database,\par
if you look at traces of prevalence of diagnosis\par
over time, you will see, generally\par
speaking, at least in the databases that we've looked at,\par
you will see changes that occur over time that don't\par
make a whole lot of sense.\par
So for instance, I was looking at the database\par
recently where we had 10 years worth of data\par
on a set of patients.\par
And if you look at the diagnosis,\par
atopic dermatitis, which is a skin condition, what\par
you see in this database is that the prevalence remained\par
fairly constant for many years.\par
And then over the course of a period of about three months,\par
it doubled.\par
The prevalence of atopic dermatitis doubled.\par
And then it stayed at that high level subsequently.\par
Now does it make any sense that atopic dermatitis\par
could suddenly have become twice as prevalent in the population\par
that that database represents?\par
Presumably not.\par
Presumably what's going on is there was a change in billing\par
practice or coding practice in some or all the hospitals\par
or the health care offices included in that database.\par
This is a real challenge.\par
So any other factor that happens to change around at that time\par
will look like it's correlated with atopic dermatitis.\par
But in fact, it's just an artifact.\par
So these are the kinds of problems that bedevil analysis\par
of large health care databases.\par
And I've specifically worked in health care\par
for the last few years.\par
But I have no doubt that these problems are not\par
unique to health care.\par
And in fact, I think in any big data kind of situation\par
we're likely to see these kinds of problems.\par
I'll just give you one example.\par
I have been somewhat involved in a project\par
here at Columbia to do with analysis\par
of declassified documents.\par
We're looking at documents released by the government\par
some years after the events that are documented\par
in these documents occurred.\par
And so in that case, the documents\par
that are released by the government\par
tend to be somewhat incomplete, because some documents remain\par
classified even decades after the historical events.\par
And all the documents they do release,\par
government agencies redact portions of these documents.\par
So they literally black out portions of the documents.\par
So if you want to analyze these data to look at, for example,\par
the correlation between trends in communication\par
volume between embassies around the world,\par
diverse US embassies around the world\par
and historical events in different parts of the world,\par
there's a real challenge there which\par
is that you don't necessarily have\par
that complete set of documents.\par
And they're missing pieces to these documents.\par
So not withstanding these limitations and challenges,\par
I think the potential is huge for the use of big data\par
to help with human decision making.\par
And let me just focus on health care in particular.\par
So it's, as I said a few minutes ago,\par
the quantity of evidence we have from high quality randomized\par
controlled trials is really very modest.\par
And we cannot afford to conduct randomized trials on every last\par
health intervention to understand its benefits\par
and risks.\par
So we must use observational data\par
to improve the quality of health care.\par
So it's imperative that we use these data.\par
And it is thus an imperative that we develop methods,\par
algorithms methods, data science methods, statistical methods,\par
epidemiological methods, and so on,\par
that address these challenges, and crucially methods\par
that deliver honest inferences, methods\par
that produce statistical artifacts like confidence\par
intervals or prediction intervals,\par
that actually mean what they purport to mean.\par
And if the limitations of the data in a particular situation\par
are such that we really cannot generate reliable evidence\par
about a particular issue, then we need to know that.\par
So it's very problematic when we produce something\par
like a 95% confidence interval that's, say, yay wide,\par
when in fact, the real uncertainty would dictate\par
that the integral should be this wide.\par
That's problematic.\par
So we need methods that tell us when\par
we're in a situation of considerable uncertainty\par
so that the decision making can be appropriately informed.\par
To me, the single most important takeaway message\par
from this body of work is know your data.\par
So it is critically important in any kind of analysis\par
that you have a deep understanding\par
of the origins of your data and the limitations of your data.\par
So there's a tremendous temptation,\par
because you've got very large quantities of data,\par
let's say you've data on 10 million patients\par
who have a particular condition.\par
There's a tendency, I think, to believe that, gee, we've\par
got 10 million patients.\par
Surely we know everything there is to know about this disease.\par
Well, whether you've got 100 patients or 10 million\par
patients, the kinds of issues that are challenging here,\par
the kinds of biases that can creep in and so on,\par
they're present.\par
And they don't go away as the sample size gets\par
bigger and bigger and bigger.\par
So the crucial takeaway lesson from all of this\par
is know your data.\par
Know the limitations.\par
Know the threats to the validity of your analysis\par
or other people's analysis that you're consuming.\par
And take those into account in informing your decisions\par
and actions in the world.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 