{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So now, after discussed visualization\par
of numerical data, before we go on with another part\par
of visualization, we need to discuss some numerical summary.\par
So let's discuss how do we summarize numerical data.\par
First, we're always curious about the center of variation.\par
The center of variation is where the different observed values\par
distribute around.\par
So the center of variation can be\par
summarized in two commonly used statistics.\par
There are other summaries, but these two\par
are the mostly commonly used summaries.\par
The first one is mean, which is the numerical average\par
of observed values.\par
The second is median, which is the midpoint.\par
If you think about age distribution, for the median,\par
if you observe 100 different values,\par
you should have the median is right between the 50th\par
and the 51st observed value so that you have half of the data\par
below this point and half of the data above the point.\par
So when the data comes with a few extremely large values,\par
which we'll see later on in one of the examples,\par
the mean is more affected by them than the median\par
because is taking numerical average over the entire set\par
of observed value.\par
One large value can drag the average towards it,\par
and that makes the center moves with this extreme value.\par
Well, for the median, it is not so sensitive.\par
So this is one thing to keep in mind when\par
you use different summaries to summarize\par
the center of variation.\par
It is always helpful to look at both mean and the median, which\par
give you more complete picture of where\par
the center of variation is.\par
So here example that I use data on the Major League Baseball\par
on the players' salary from 2004.\par
So this is a histogram to look at the distribution\par
of the salary in that year.\par
The x-axis is salary we see by the players,\par
and the y-axis indicating the frequency that occurred\par
in each of the intervals.\par
As you can see, that this distribution has a shape\par
that you have a lot of individuals\par
observed in the lowest category and you have quite a number\par
of players that received a much higher salary\par
compensation in that year.\par
And this in statistics is called a skewed distribution,\par
that the distribution have a long tail that goes\par
to one side of the variation.\par
And when this happens, you have some extreme values.\par
Then the center of variation, the mean and median,\par
will differ a lot.\par
In this example, where I used two lines\par
to indicate which one is mean, which one is median,\par
and this is the median, where corresponding to 50%\par
of the players received compensation\par
below this line, 50% above this line.\par
The other line in this plot is mean.\par
That is further into the tail of variation,\par
the [INAUDIBLE] variation, because it is numerical average\par
and it tends to be affected more by the small number\par
of extreme values.\par
So we just covered the numerical summaries\par
of the center of distribution.\par
In statistics, we're also interested to understand\par
how much variation there is in a variable.\par
The extent of variation of all the observed values in a sample\par
can be measured by certain statistics.\par
The first statistic we would like to discuss\par
is called standard deviation, and here is a computing formula\par
of the standard deviation.\par
And the first statistic is called the variance,\par
and standard deviation is a square root of the variance.\par
So here are a lot of mathematical notations\par
and symbols that you may not be familiar with.\par
So after this segment, there will be a reading activity\par
for you to get familiar with all the individual notations\par
and then you would know how the computation is carried out.\par
For the purpose of our discussion\par
here, that all you need to know from this equation\par
is that xi is an individual observed value\par
in your sample, where x-bar is the mean\par
of the values in your sample.\par
And the variance is trying to capture the distance\par
from an individual observed value to the center\par
of the values captured by the sample mean,\par
and the distance is computed by taking a difference of the two\par
numbers.\par
Because the numbers can take both positive and negative\par
signs and we like to average over all the values, all\par
the departures, so we take a square to make all of them\par
a distance and then we take average over all the--\par
and distances from the individual values\par
to the common center from the sample.\par
So here, to summarize, for multiple observed values,\par
variation is captured by standard deviation\par
by using their deviation from their center.\par
And the standard deviation as a statistic\par
is concerned about deviation from the sample mean\par
and it is the square root of variance,\par
which can be viewed as the average squared deviation.\par
Standard deviation is a parameter\par
for the normal distributions.\par
So if the data you observe follow normal distribution\par
approximately, then standard deviation\par
is a natural approximate to the parameter that\par
will decide precisely what normal distribution\par
that your data might be following.\par
Standard deviation is often used as the yardstick for variation.\par
What that means is that it standardizes variation\par
to make random values from different variables comparable,\par
and then, we will have a discussion in the next slide.\par
Assisted by both the center of a distribution and variation\par
of a distribution measured by the corresponding statistics,\par
we can carry out an operation on the data called\par
standardization.\par
The standardization is x, a value being observed,\par
and we use the measured center, either by mean or median,\par
or the level of variation measured by standard deviation,\par
to compute how many standard deviations x is\par
above or below from the mean.\par
So here, let's consider an example\par
where we use standard deviation as a yardstick.\par
Consider the first person, Louis.\par
He's making $25,000 a year.\par
In the city he lives in, the mean income\par
is $20,000 with a standard deviation, $4,000,\par
which means the center of all that income in his city\par
is $20,000 with the level of variation at $4,000.\par
A second person that we are looking at, who is Miles,\par
he's also making $25,000 a year, and the income in his city\par
has a mean of $30,000 and a standard deviation of $5,000.\par
So these two individuals from two different distributions,\par
and we want to make their level of income comparable, adjusted\par
for the local variation.\par
So we can say that using the numbers we\par
have on the mean and standard deviation of the population\par
that Louis is from, we can say Louis\par
is 1.25 standard deviations above the mean in his city.\par
For Miles, he is actually 1 standard deviation\par
below the mean in his city.\par
So the operation to derive how many standard deviations\par
above or below the mean is called standardization,\par
as we just explained, and this can be visualized\par
using, say, let's assume it's actually approximately\par
a normal distribution and Louis is this much above everyone\par
in the population.\par
And for Miles, he's actually below the mean\par
and to the left in the population.\par
So you can see that using the number of standard deviations\par
above or below mean, it may give you a clearer picture of where\par
these two individuals stand in their corresponding\par
populations.\par
So a second set of statistic that\par
often used to quantify variation are called quantiles.\par
So the quantiles, or sometimes known as percentiles,\par
is a value of threshold for a variable.\par
This threshold is defined to have a percent of data\par
below it.\par
So if we say 95 percentile, would\par
mean that this value in this distribution\par
have 95% of possible value below this given threshold.\par
So for example, if I take a standardized test, SAT,\par
for critical reading you can find out a score\par
600 is a 79th percentile.\par
That means if a student receives 600 in critical reading,\par
then we can know on average there\par
are 79% of all the people who have taken this test scored\par
below this individual.\par
A set of special percentiles often\par
used in visualizing variation, as we\par
will illustrate using a plot later,\par
they are called quartiles, that corresponding to the 25%, 50%,\par
and 70% percentiles.\par
The reason why they're called quartile\par
is these numbers cut the distribution into quarters.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 