{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 When we study association, it is a very interesting\par
to consider the phenomena of confounding and something\par
called Simpson's paradox.\par
In order to do that, we need to ask the questions,\par
whether association equal to causation?\par
The answer is no.\par
So I want to put this line up front, so that you'll never\par
get the wrong idea-- Is association\par
never equals causation, no matter how strong it is.\par
There are many reports on association findings\par
in the scientific literature.\par
And when the association tends to be strong,\par
than people want to report the association in news\par
articles indicating that the association indicates that you\par
should do a certain thing to avoid\par
some risk of other things, as a way\par
of indicating the association found equals causation.\par
But without further study to confirm the causal relation,\par
simple findings on association does not\par
qualify the relation of causation\par
between two variables.\par
For one thing that association is\par
a symmetric relation between two variables and causation is not.\par
So, if you find a strong association between watching\par
television and live longer, it could be the other way around.\par
That if you live longer, you tend to watch more television.\par
The difference-- so let's consider\par
some different scenarios of association.\par
So here, we'll you already will observe\par
in analysis is we have variable X and we have variable Y,\par
and we found a strong association between X and Y.\par
So that is what we have found.\par
What could be the possible scenario that could have lead\par
to this phenomena?\par
So what could be a possible explanation?\par
A first explanation is X causes variation in Y. OK.\par
So, such as, we now know that smoking causes cancer,\par
so X could be-- X is smoking and Y\par
is cancer, the risk of cancer.\par
And, of course, it could be the other way\par
around, that Y causes X. As association is symmetric\par
where a cause effect relation is not.\par
So this is a causal relation between two variables.\par
It could also be that here you have X, and you have Y,\par
and you have a third variable that causes variation in both X\par
and Y. And then, you observe a strong association\par
between these two.\par
So example for this scenario is that Z\par
can be the size of a fire, and Y is the damages caused\par
by the fire, and the wha-- X is number all firefighters\par
at the scene of the fire.\par
And you will observe a strong association\par
between the number of firefighters\par
at the scene of the fire and the damage of the fire,\par
because they're both caused by the [? associated ?] variable,\par
size of fire.\par
So you would not-- if you find a strong association\par
between those two, and you would not\par
conclude that the number of firefighter\par
causes damage at the fire, because that would be absurd.\par
Because they are there to save property, instead\par
of causing more damages.\par
A third possible scenario is the most complicated one.\par
So you have X and Y. You observe association between X and Y.\par
And you sort of suspected that there might be a relation here.\par
So it is a question mark whether you want\par
to establish causation here.\par
There is a third variable that also potentially causes\par
variation in Y. And then, at the same time\par
X and Z are associated.\par
So here is associated-- sort of they're mixed together.\par
And then, this is called a confounding scenario\par
where, because X and Z are associated with each other\par
and they both pretend to have an effect on Y,\par
because they're associated it would be very hard for you\par
to separate the effects.\par
To make things worse is when this part is not observed.\par
So this is hidden.\par
It is not observed in your data.\par
When this is hidden, Z become a confounder--\par
a hidden confounder that whose effect cannot be established\par
using observed data.\par
And you only observe association between X and Y, and some of it\par
can come from Z, because Z and X associated.\par
So this is a very hard problem, phenomenon in statistics\par
called confounding.\par
And one of the phenomena observed\par
when confounding occurs is called the Simpson paradox.\par
Now let's consider a hypothetical example\par
of confounding, especially a example of Simpson's paradox.\par
So now let's consider an example of Simpson's paradox,\par
a phenomena occurred when we study association.\par
Kyle would like to buy a new cell phone.\par
He went to a store and took a quick survey of the phones\par
on display.\par
He noticed that the phones from the brand Stardust\par
cost on average $50 more than the phones from the brand\par
kPower.\par
Since he's on a budget, should he buy a phone from kPower?\par
A store clerk came to assist Kyle.\par
She put phones from Stardust and the phones from kPower side\par
by side in terms of specifications and functions.\par
From the most basic phones to the most high end\par
phones within each comparable pair, the phones from Stardust\par
is less expensive than kPower.\par
Kyle is really confused.\par
How can the brand to be more expensive on average, yet\par
a better deal in every category.\par
This is a example of Simpson's paradox.\par
clerk explains that the Stardust phones\par
are famous for their high quality and high technology.\par
They always pack more technology in their phones,\par
which also tend to cost more.\par
A big proportion of the phones from Stardust\par
are among the most expensive high end phones on the market.\par
However, due to a Stardust technical dominance\par
in the market, it is able to offer these high end phones\par
at a prize lower than its competitor's.\par
kPower on the other hand, prized in the slim design\par
of their phones that do not put a lot of features\par
in their phones due to the size constraint.\par
Their customers enjoy the physical appear of the phones,\par
do not mind paying a little extra for the physical appeal.\par
Therefore, as we can see the cost of a phone\par
is decided by the pricing model of a phone's brand\par
and features of the phone.\par
A valuable technical feature of the phone\par
are also associated with the brand's design.\par
Simply averaging over all the phones from the brand\par
will ignore the effects from the technical features making\par
these features co-founding factors\par
when we study the association between prices\par
and individual brands.\par
So let's look at the cell phone example we just saw.\par
In this example we considered the association\par
between two variables.\par
Y is the price of a cell phone.\par
X is a brand of cell phone.\par
We want to compare the average price Y given X,\par
to establish association between X and Y. In this example,\par
we also look at a third variable, Z,\par
which is the technical specification of a cell phone.\par
If we do not observe Z, we see a certain association\par
between x and y.\par
That one brand price is higher than other brand price.\par
That's association.\par
Conditioned on Z, or given the value of Z,\par
the association is reversed.\par
And this is due to confounding that the values in Z\par
is associated with value x, and they both have effects on Y.\par
And when you aggregate the information Z, make it hidden,\par
thane the association between Y and Z are reversed,\par
and give you the wrong impression how Y and Z-- how\par
X and Y are associated with each other.\par
So this is called a Simpson paradox.\par
It is a phenomena happens when a confounding factors are not\par
observed in the data and become a hidden confounder.\par
So given all this possible scenario of association, given\par
all this possible explanation for association identified\par
between X and Y, what can we do to establish\par
a cause-effect relation between two variables?\par
It is important to establish such a relation when\par
we want to use a controlled variation in x in order\par
to induce certain changes in y.\par
Such as we want to change some of our life habit\par
in order to lower the risk of cancer.\par
The most ideal way of establishing\par
cause-effect relation is through randomized experiment.\par
One of the examples of random experiment\par
is known as A/B testing, where you\par
have an experiment with one treatment in the group, which\par
is A, and one control group, which is B.\par
And you randomly assign individuals\par
to two groups, and to see whether they\par
exhibit different values in the outcome of interest.\par
So here, the question of why do we\par
have to have a control group?\par
The control group is often created to create comparison,\par
and also to control something known as a placebo effect.\par
In medical studies, if you gave the treatment group\par
the new medication and give nothing\par
to the people in the control group, than the placebo effect\par
may become the hidden confounder.\par
Because the treatment group and the control\par
group differ in two ways.\par
One, they differ in the medication received.\par
The group received some new medication.\par
The control received nothing, no medication.\par
They also differ in the mechanism of the study.\par
One were given a pill or a treatment,\par
and the other received nothing of the similar nature.\par
So there are two variables here.\par
One is the true effects of the medication.\par
The other is the formality of being treated.\par
The placebo effect is, while documenting effects\par
in the medical literature, patients\par
will feel better by simply believing\par
that they're being treated.\par
Therefore, it's very important for us\par
to create the placebo given to the control\par
group, such as a sugar pill that contain no medical benefits.\par
Given to the control group, so that these two groups will only\par
be different on one variable, that\par
is the medical benefits of the treatment\par
they receive, not in the formality of the treatment.\par
And it's also an experiment to consider\par
a double blinded experiment, which\par
is the most of the individual in the experiment,\par
and the people who evaluate the result of the experiment,\par
should be blinded to the assignments of individual\par
into the treatment group and the control group.\par
The reason for that is knowledge about the group assignments\par
may effect patient's reaction to the treatment,\par
or individual reaction to the treatment,\par
and they also impact the researchers\par
when they evaluate the results from the experiment.\par
Some times this is not always possible,\par
if one treatment is more visible than other treatment.\par
But whenever possible we want to keep the experiment\par
double blinded, so to remove potential hidden confounder\par
effects.\par
So here, from this example, you can\par
see that in an experiment we implement a lot of controls\par
on how the experiment should be carried out,\par
such as creating placebos, and introducing\par
blindness towards the treatment assignments.\par
We also rely on random group assignments\par
as a way of illustrating one of our\par
[? stages ?] of thinking example.\par
Then we want to have repetitions in the experiments,\par
so that we can use repeated measurements\par
to average out random variation between individuals\par
in the same group.\par
So combining all the three principles using experiment,\par
it's easier to establish a causal effect relation.\par
When this is not possible, that we-- when we only have access\par
to observational data, there is a field\par
in statistics called causal inference that\par
deals with how we can use statistical method\par
and models to establish causal effect\par
relation between variables using observational data.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 