{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 In this segment we'll discuss association between variables.\par
Association is defined as when you observe\par
certain values of one variable are observed more\par
frequently, more often, with certain values\par
of another variable.\par
When we will observe this trend in our data,\par
we will say the variable one is associated with variable two.\par
So how do we display and summarize such a phenomenon\par
in our data?\par
If we have categorical variables,\par
first, we need to summarize the observation from the two\par
variables by looking at counts of the joint occurrence.\par
So, if you want to see whether one value-- certain values\par
of one variable happen more often with certain values\par
of another variable, we want to see whether that is showing up\par
in their joint occurrences.\par
For example, here, using the results--\par
using the findings from the Pew Research Center internet\par
use from August 2012, I've created\par
this hypothetical table.\par
So here, in this table we have two variables.\par
First variable is the age of the respondents here.\par
To simplify our illustration I put-- I use age categories\par
and which will-- which turn age into a categorical variable.\par
The second variable displayed in this table is internet use.\par
You have two categories, one category of individuals use\par
internet, one category of individuals\par
do not use internet.\par
And here, you can see certain trends,\par
but it's because the data is organized\par
using counts of joint occurrences in the table,\par
it does not show very clearly.\par
So let's display what we see in this table using a graph.\par
In this graph I converted what we\par
were seeing in the previous table into bar plots.\par
In each bar I used the size of the light blue\par
to indicate the individuals that use the internet,\par
and the color dark blue is for the individuals\par
that do not use the internet.\par
And I make a bar for each of the category of the age variable.\par
And this is known as a stacked bar chart.\par
You can see that the composition of internet users,\par
the percent of internet users, vary\par
a lot among the age groups.\par
It is highest in the youngest group,\par
and its lowest in the oldest group.\par
And you can see that the value of the internet user,\par
on using internet, happen more often with the youngest group\par
category.\par
So this is the association that the internet use\par
is associated with the age category of the respondents.\par
So how do we measure, or how do we\par
use, numerical summaries to summarize this pattern we\par
see in the data?\par
So let's assume that we only want to-- let's\par
simplify things a little bit.\par
Let's only look at young adults and senior adults\par
from our data.\par
And we see that from the data that 96% of the young adults\par
use internet and 58% of the senior adults use internet.\par
There are several ways we can compute numerical statistics\par
to measure the association between age and internet use\par
in this example.\par
We can first report the difference in proportions,\par
such as the difference between 96% and 58%.\par
We can compute something called relative risks, which\par
work as such.\par
It's related to the destination of probability, especially\par
conditional probability.\par
So we will say the proportion of internet use\par
given young adults is 96%.\par
And we use the same notation to denote\par
the proportion of internet use among the seniors is 58%.\par
So given the definition of the two proportions,\par
the relative risk is P1 over P2, if we define\par
this is P1 and this as P2.\par
The other way of summarizing this in statistics\par
is something called odds ratio.\par
And you will see a lot of discussion\par
on odds ratio in Professor David Madigan's module\par
on observational house study.\par
Here the observational is defined as P1 over 1 minus P1\par
compared to P2 over 1 minus P2.\par
Here the statistical P1 over 1 minus P1\par
is known as odds of having internet,\par
given you are in the population of young adults.\par
And this statistic calculates the ratio\par
of the odds of having the internet among the young adults\par
and among the senior adults.\par
Therefore, it is called observation.\par
So here we have-- you can either do P1 minus P2, which\par
is the difference.\par
We can do relative risk, and we can do ops ratio.\par
They're all statistics that can be\par
used to summarize the association we have observed\par
in this particular example.\par
Let's consider association between a categorical variable\par
and a quantitative variable.\par
First, such phenon-- such association\par
can be summarized by looking at the distribution\par
of the quantitative variable given the-- each value\par
of the categorical variable.\par
And the distribution of a variable\par
can be summarized using different statistics\par
that we have discussed before, such as the mean, median,\par
the [? quartile, ?] the standard deviation, and so forth.\par
If two variables are associated, the distribution\par
of variable Y, the quantitative variable,\par
will be dependent on the value of X. They will look different.\par
So the distribution Y will be different\par
for each value of the categorical variable\par
were [? sum ?] values of categorical variable,\par
if Y and X are associated.\par
This is an example that we want to-- we\par
found from the Bureau of Labor Statistics income trends\par
in the year of 2014.\par
In this plot we studied association\par
between two variables, the income,\par
which is our Y variable, and the education of the respondents,\par
the X variable.\par
Here the education variable has eight categories\par
from having a doctorate degree two individuals who\par
didn't finish high school.\par
And as you-- and in this plot what\par
is being summarized is that average weekly income\par
level from the respondents we think each\par
of this education category.\par
Here, the distribution of the Y variable\par
is summarized using the mean of the data collected,\par
and it's being plotted within each\par
of the value of the categorical variable, education.\par
And we want to use this plot to compare between categories\par
of X variable in terms of the center of the Y variable's\par
distribution.\par
As you can see, that there is a trend\par
that for people who didn't finish\par
high school, the income, the average weekly income,\par
it's much lower than individuals who\par
have had a college education, a graduate education,\par
professional education, and a doctorate degree.\par
Of course, that mean, or the center all the distribution,\par
is not the whole story about this distribution.\par
There may be some other features that-- about distribution also\par
differ among the categories of the categorical variable, which\par
is not seen in this plot.\par
But here let us assume that to study\par
the association between education and income,\par
we're looking at the center-- the trend\par
of the center of distribution.\par
So how do we measure such association?\par
For example, we have for the individual\par
who didn't finish high school the mean being $488 a week.\par
And for people who have finished high school, on average\par
they make $668 a week.\par
We come measure the association by looking\par
at the difference of the averages, or difference\par
of the mean between categories, and to see\par
whether they have population difference indicating\par
that the income, the weekly income,\par
is associated with the value of a categorical variable,\par
education.\par
And one factor we need to consider\par
when measuring association using the difference of averages\par
is that the data may be collected\par
using a subset of population, and they are randomly\par
selected from population.\par
So the average that you are looking at,\par
the $488 and the $668 a week, are\par
based on random selected individuals from two\par
sub-population, the population of high school degree holders\par
and the people who didn't finish high school.\par
So therefore, there are possibly sampling variation in estimate.\par
So they do not-- they may not have\par
the most accurate measure-- accurate\par
number about population.\par
So these values have sampling variabilities.\par
So when we want to establish or measure association\par
using the approach of comparing averages between categories,\par
we need to consider sampling variation.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 