{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 In this segment, we'll discuss sampling and conducting\par
estimation using sample observations.\par
Before we discuss sampling, let's discuss why we sample.\par
In statistics, we always care about knowledge regarding\par
the entire population.\par
Here the population is referring to the entire collection\par
of individuals of interest for a particular study.\par
If the population is really our central goal to study,\par
why should we sample?\par
Let's consider an example.\par
I have received a recipe for chocolate chip cookies,\par
and I want to see how it works.\par
So I created a population of cookies,\par
and my variable of interest is the taste of this cookie.\par
To study the entire population for this example\par
will mean that I have to taste every single cookie I've made,\par
which will be problematic if I am potentially\par
interested in bringing this cookie\par
to a bake sale at a school.\par
Therefore, the more sensible thing to do\par
is to sample a cookie at random and taste the cookie.\par
The sample cookie will give us certain knowledge\par
about the entire population in terms of how good\par
the cookies taste as a population.\par
Of course, the random sample of the cookie\par
will not be identical to every single cookie\par
in the population, but it tells you\par
enough so that you'll know that the whole population of cookies\par
is probably OK or not OK to be brought to a bake sale.\par
To derive knowledge from sample to population,\par
we need to have a representative sample.\par
In order to learn why we should have a representative sample,\par
it is more meaningful to discuss what happens if we do not\par
have a good sample.\par
When we have a non-representative sample,\par
we tend to have misleading outcomes,\par
and we'll have biased results.\par
In order to correct for the bias caused\par
by the bias in the sample, we will carry out\par
a more sophisticated analysis which\par
makes that analysis itself difficult. If this is not\par
successful, then the time and research\par
used to collect such data will be wasted.\par
How do we get a representative sample, then?\par
A representative sample is a sample\par
that carries a correct image of the population.\par
To do that, we need to award a biased sampling design\par
that has systematic errors.\par
In particular, when we study of variable of interest,\par
we do not want the sampling chance\par
of an individual being associated\par
with the outcome of interest.\par
If that's the case, and we worry about confounders\par
that may potentially affect the outcome of interest,\par
why not create a sample that is a matched\par
image of the population?\par
So why not matching?\par
An example of matching in particular\par
is to have a sample composition being exactly proportional\par
to that of the population.\par
So if you have a population of students on campus,\par
and on this campus you have 64% females and 40% males,\par
then you want to have a random sample that\par
matches the population on this particular variable.\par
However, in practice, we have many variables\par
that can potentially be impacting\par
the outcome of the interest, and if we\par
want to match on all these variables,\par
that can be very hard.\par
So consider the cookie example we just discussed earlier.\par
In matching we'll be creating a small cookie whose ingredients\par
match the composition of ingredients\par
of the entire batch of cookies.\par
To do that, we will start with the recipe instead of mixing\par
the ingredients randomly, we will\par
take a small fraction of each of the ingredients\par
and create a tiny cookie.\par
That cookie will be a matched image of the entire population.\par
This sounds pretty ridiculous, because we definitely do not\par
do that in our daily life.\par
So what do we actually is mix ingredients randomly--\par
hopefully they are distributed more or less evenly--\par
and random-sample a cookie so that the cookie is hopefully\par
representative of the population.\par
Here the key word is randomize, and we randomly\par
select, which is the best design we can carry out in sampling.\par
To create a representative sample,\par
we need to sample randomly from the population\par
with an equal chance-- not a chance\par
associated with the outcome of interest-- towards individuals\par
in the population.\par
Here let's do a demonstration using LEGO pieces.\par
We use a population of 200 LEGO pieces,\par
and we want to create two populations.\par
Here we create Population A and Population B.\par
Each population has 100 pieces.\par
The variable of interest-- let's call it\par
x-- is the number of points on a sampled LEGO piece.\par
Population A has a mixed population\par
of some very small pieces and some very large pieces.\par
Population B is a population that\par
is relatively homogeneous in terms of the sizes of the LEGO\par
pieces in it.\par
So here in Population A, we counted the number of points\par
on each of the pieces, and concluded that the average of x\par
is 4.35.\par
For Population B, the average for x is 5.84.\par
So now, for illustration, we will randomly sample pieces\par
from these two populations by hand.\par
Sampling from Population A is done by Statistician 1,\par
and the sampling from Population B is done by Statistician 2.\par
We have seen in the demonstration\par
we created two populations.\par
In this histogram I distributed the size of the pieces\par
in Population A and in Population B.\par
As we have seen in the demonstration,\par
Population A has many small pieces and several very\par
big pieces.\par
Population B, however, is more homogeneous in sizes,\par
so you have Size 4, 6 and 8.\par
They're more equally distributed,\par
therefore creating a very strong contrast between the two\par
populations.\par
In our demonstration, we randomly\par
select from the two populations.\par
The first image shows up that we choose a random sample\par
from Population A. You can see that you\par
have some big pieces here and some small pieces there.\par
For the second image that I have,\par
a random sample from Population B,\par
you can see that the size of the pieces\par
are very similar to each other.\par
Because I know what went into the populations,\par
I can use computer simulations to illustrate what happens\par
when we have a random sampling.\par
Here is a histogram to show you how\par
sample means distribute from random samples of the two\par
populations.\par
The first histogram is for Population A,\par
and the second histogram is for Population B. Here I\par
use a vertical line, this white line\par
here, to indicate where the true average is in the population.\par
You can see that there is a lot of variation\par
here, though the plot indicates that from different samples\par
you can have a sample mean as low as about 1 and as high\par
as 12.\par
This is constructed using 1,000 random samples.\par
For Population B, because the population is more homogeneous,\par
what it translates to is less variation in the sampling\par
variation of the sample mean, meaning\par
that in the 1,000 samples we carried out\par
using computer simulation, the viability\par
between different samples runs from 4 to 8,\par
mostly concentrated at 6.\par
We are close to where the true population mean is.\par
You can see that the sampling variation depends\par
on the population variation of the variable of interest\par
in the population.\par
So now let's see what happens when we choose pieces randomly\par
by hand.\par
For each of the two populations, we\par
carry out five random samples.\par
I illustrate them using vertical bars in this plot.\par
You can see that for Population A, we should have five samples.\par
You see four bars because two of them\par
have exactly the same value for the sample mean,\par
and you can see that they are scattered widely\par
within the range of the sample distribution of the sample\par
means.\par
For Population B, we also have five samples.\par
Here you see three bars.\par
We actually have five samples, but the reason why you only\par
see three is their overlap.\par
You can see that the variation difference between samples\par
is much smaller, and they also, by chance, all fall\par
down on the same side of the population mean.\par
We can study this behavior later using see another plot.\par
So you can see that in practice, we only have one real sample,\par
and using computer and mathematical tools,\par
we can derive the sampling variation in the sampling\par
distribution, and such knowledge will assist us\par
in creating better estimation of the population mean,\par
to have better coverage of the population mean in our results.\par
So we saw some sampling estimates\par
from the previous slide, and we realize\par
that they all have variability due to random sampling.\par
We know that estimates based on samples differ from the truth.\par
What's more important to that sampling variability ability\par
is to award sampling bias or selection\par
bias in observed values based on a random sample.\par
Such bias occurs when the probability\par
of an individual being selected is associated\par
with variable's value.\par
Here consider three examples.\par
One example is if you want to study the education\par
level of the entire population using an internet survey.\par
The probability of a highly educated individual\par
being selected in your sample is higher than the individual\par
with less education.\par
Another example would be to gauge the political opinions\par
of the population by doing a survey on social media.\par
This contains sampling bias, because people\par
who use social media are different from people\par
who do not.\par
Therefore, whenever possible, we want to understand and model\par
the selection process using statistical and analytic tools\par
to understand the sampling bias in addition\par
to sampling variability.\par
Using such understanding, we can create corrections\par
to the sampling bias to derive more reliable results.\par
Here we'll see an animation about how\par
we can derive knowledge from the population to sample.\par
This is an example for sampling.\par
In this example, we discuss random sampling and statistical\par
inference.\par
First we use this rectangular area\par
to indicate a large population of interest.\par
There are two types of individuals in this population.\par
For example, the crosses are those\par
who think it is a good time to find a job,\par
and the circles are those who think\par
it is a bad time to find a job.\par
In the population, the proportion of circles is 50%.\par
We cannot always observe the population directly.\par
Using random sampling, we draw a small set\par
of individuals from the population,\par
with both types observed.\par
So here is our sample.\par
In this sample, we have 43% circles.\par
The proportion of circles in the population, the 50%,\par
is a truth we care to find out.\par
The 43% from the sample is our estimate.\par
If we repeat the entire process and randomly sample another set\par
of individuals and count the number of crosses and circles,\par
we may reach a different estimate,\par
say 57% in this particular example.\par
Both samples we have seen so far were sampled\par
from the same population.\par
The estimates were calculated in the same way,\par
yet they give different numerical values.\par
What is happening?\par
There is only one truth in the population.\par
Estimates based on different random samples\par
vary due to chance.\par
This variability is due to chance\par
during the sampling process, known as sampling variability.\par
The probability model can be used\par
to describe the randomness due to sampling variability.\par
In practice, we do not see multiple random samples.\par
We only have one sample from a population and one estimate\par
calculated using this sample.\par
Assisted by the probability model for the sampling\par
variability derived using statistical theory,\par
we can carry out statistical inference\par
regarding the population truth.\par
For example, we can create an interval for the population\par
truth using the sample estimate plus and minus\par
the estimated margin of error.\par
The margin of error is decided using both data variability\par
we observe in the sample and the probability model\par
for sampling variability.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 