{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Now, let's put all the rules together for our exercise.\par
Here, consider a random phenomenon\par
where we flip a coin three times.\par
So that-- this part-- is the entire random phenomenon\par
we're looking at.\par
And then the question we're going\par
to answer using probability calculation is\par
what is the probability of getting fewer heads than tails.\par
First, let's write out the sample space, S,\par
or the collection of all possible outcomes.\par
So for if you flip a coin three times, and every time\par
the coin can be head or tail, we have a total\par
of eight possible outcomes.\par
Here, the letter T stands for tail,\par
the letter H stands for head.\par
Then, we define an event, A, [INAUDIBLE] defines\par
the number over here, this sharp sign or the hashtag sign,\par
or whatever we call it nowadays, stands for number.\par
The number of heads is less than number of tails or heads.\par
Then this should equal to the probability of outcomes\par
contained in this event.\par
To calculate this probability, we only\par
need to count, first count, which outcome\par
we have in this sample space satisfies the definition of A.\par
So number of heads less than tails, so this is one.\par
This is one.\par
And this is one.\par
This is one.\par
So the four of them satisfy this.\par
There are four that the probability of this event\par
equals the probability of observing any outcomes satisfy\par
definition of A, as we have discussed\par
on the previous slide, the probability\par
of A equal to the sum of the probability of this individual\par
outcomes.\par
If this coin is a fair coin, and you're flipping randomly,\par
each of these outcomes has an equal chance of occurring.\par
So therefore, you have 1/8, 1/8, 1/8 here.\par
And the reason for that is remember\par
the probability of all possible outcomes need to add up to 1.\par
Therefore, you have 1 over 8 plus 1 over 8 plus 1 over 8\par
plus 1 over 8 give you 1/2.\par
So you can see that here we use very basic probability\par
rules for the computation of this example.\par
We use a definition of the sample space\par
[INAUDIBLE] probability is here to all possible outcomes.\par
We use a definition of event, and we\par
use, after defining the event, counting\par
the outcome in this event, we apply\par
the probability rule to calculate\par
the final probability.\par
Now let's have another exercise using a different rule we just\par
discussed.\par
Here, the problem reads let's say we flip a coin 10 times\par
now.\par
What is the probability of having heads on both\par
the first and the last flip?\par
After we just did the exercise on the previous slide,\par
you may say, this is easy.\par
We need to write down the sample space of all the outcomes, all\par
the possible sequence of head and tails\par
when you flip a coin 10 times, then\par
circle the outcomes where you have heads on both\par
the first and the last flip.\par
That is a viable approach, but it would take a long time\par
because flipping a coin 10 times,\par
you have a total of 1,024 possible sequences of heads\par
and tails.\par
Another way of doing this is to define two events.\par
One is, the first flip equal to heads.\par
The other event is the tenth flip equal to head.\par
So this is the first flip, this is the last flip.\par
Because the coins are fair coins and being flipped\par
independently, we know the outcome of the first flip\par
is independent from the outcome of the last flip.\par
So we can assume that A and B are independent.\par
And if we look at the first flip equal to head,\par
the probability of A equal to 1/2, the probability of B\par
also equal to 1/2, because no matter whether it's\par
the first flip or the second flip or the 10th flip,\par
if you're flipping the coin independently and fairly,\par
the probability of getting a head\par
should be half of the time.\par
Therefore, that observing heads on both flips\par
is then the definition of this end event combining the two\par
events, the intersect of the two events, probability of A and B.\par
Applying the rule we just discussed,\par
now the probability of A and B equal\par
to the product of those two individual probabilities.\par
So it's 1/2 times 1/2 gives you 1/4.\par
According to this calculation, that a quarter of the time,\par
you should observe halves on both\par
the first and the last flip.\par
So if you are actually interested,\par
you can definitely write out all the 1,024 sequence\par
of head and tails, assuming they're all equally likely\par
to occur, and circle out all the sequence\par
where you have heads on both the first and last flip.\par
I assure you that, if your calculation is correct,\par
you will reach to the same conclusion.\par
This exercise just show us that using the right probability\par
rule, the calculation can be much simplified.\par
So now, as an exercise, I want to invite you to find out\par
what is the probability of having 10 heads,\par
meaning that you will have heads on the first flip\par
and the second flip and the third flip,\par
and so on and so forth until the 10th flip.\par
So this calculation will require you\par
to use either the least in all the possible outcome,\par
and select the one that satisfies this definition,\par
or the application of this multiplication rules\par
repetitively all the flips involved.\par
Probability distributions are mathematical functions\par
used to describe the occurrence of random outcomes\par
among the real axis, the values that can\par
be found on the real axis here.\par
So this is one of [INAUDIBLE] probability distribution\par
that is commonly used in practice,\par
the normal distribution.\par
The probability distribution, described by this curve,\par
can be used as follows.\par
It does not give you the probability\par
of occurring a particular outcome, particular number,\par
for this random phenomenon.\par
Actually, the probability of observing a particular number\par
is zero, given you have an infinite number\par
of possibilities.\par
So here, the continuous probability distribution\par
uses this density curve to describe\par
the density of occurrence at a particular point\par
on the real axis.\par
So when we're interested in an interval, such as here--\par
I labeled between 1 and 2-- the density\par
described using this curve can be\par
used to compute the fraction or the proportion of occurrence\par
that fall within this interval.\par
So here, the shaded area, the red area I\par
highlighted for this distribution,\par
the size of the area is the probability\par
of observing a random value between 1 and 2,\par
according to this probability distribution.\par
Probability distribution can take different shapes.\par
So here, on the previous slide, we\par
see this normal distribution [INAUDIBLE]\par
referred to as the bell curve in popular media.\par
And in probability, it is not only distribution\par
that has a bell curve shape.\par
There are some other distributions\par
that also have similar shapes.\par
But normal distribution is the most well-known one.\par
Some distributions can take shapes other than the bell\par
curve shape.\par
Here is one example that is not symmetric,\par
and this is similar to one of the histograms\par
we have discussed before that the left half\par
of the distribution is much shorter\par
than the one on the right.\par
So using the histogram, we discussed\par
that this kind of shape in distribution\par
is called a skewed distribution, meaning that the distribution\par
is not symmetric.\par
One of the tails is longer than the other,\par
so you tend to have more extreme values\par
on one end of the distribution.\par
And they work the same way as previously,\par
that the probability of observing any value between 1\par
and 2 can be described by the area, the size\par
of the area computed using the density curve\par
underneath the density curve.\par
As you can see that using different probability\par
distribution, the one on the previous slide\par
and the one on this side, the size of this\par
can be different because, for this distribution, the density,\par
the height of this curve is much higher for the interval\par
between 1 and 2 than the curve of this distribution--\par
curve describing this distribution.\par
So the density curve really tells us\par
that the frequency of occurrence for any region within the range\par
of the random variable that you're interested in\par
by giving the density level on any value within the range\par
of possible value of this random variable,\par
and then allow you to compute, using mathematical tools,\par
the probability for observing occurrence within any range\par
defined.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
Next \par
}
 