{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Very large scale health care data\par
has become available to researchers.\par
And there's a lot of excitement about the potential\par
for these data to improve the way we deliver health care\par
and understand the effects of health care interventions.\par
Just to illustrate the change that's\par
taken place, consider a drug, that drug called Metformin.\par
So Metformin is a widely used medication for diabetes.\par
Metformin has been on the market for several decades.\par
And when the drug was approved some decades\par
ago by the Food and Drug Administration,\par
there was a pivotal, so-called pivotal randomized clinical\par
trial that was the primary evidence that\par
led people to the drug.\par
And in that clinical trial, there\par
were a grand total of 141 patients exposed to Metformin.\par
So a concern is suppose there is a somewhat rare side\par
effect that is associated with Metformin, some bad thing that\par
happens to a small percentage of the patients who\par
take Metformin.\par
Well, there's a very good chance that it was never\par
seen in that randomized trial, because there\par
were only 141 patients.\par
Flash forward to today, we now have large scale patient level\par
databases, health care databases,\par
that we as researchers have been using,\par
in which, the particular databases we use,\par
there are actually over a million new users of Metformin.\par
So these are observational data, meaning\par
these are not the product of designed experiments.\par
Rather, these data are gathered as a byproduct of health care\par
practice.\par
And some of the databases in particular, the ones I'm mostly\par
going to focus on, are so-called administrative claims\par
databases.\par
So these are generated because of financial transactions\par
in the health care system.\par
There are also electronic health record systems which\par
record primary medical records.\par
But in any event, the databases that I'm going to focus on here\par
say there are over a million users of Metformin.\par
So the idea, excitement here and the idea and the hope\par
is that with that much data, with that many users\par
of Metformin, surely we can figure out\par
what good things and bad things this drug is causing.\par
We would like to do causal inference\par
using these databases to infer downstream effects,\par
good and bad, of Metformin.\par
So that's the idea.\par
Now let me show you some examples\par
of what these data look like in a sort of cartoon version.\par
These are real data.\par
These are not real patients whose pictures\par
are on the slides.\par
But this is a typical data record\par
for a particular patient.\par
So what you see on the horizontal axis is time.\par
So I'm showing you here about two years worth of data\par
for this particular patient.\par
And then there are different kinds\par
of data that we're showing here for this patient.\par
So on the top are visits that this patient made,\par
be that to primary care doctor or an emergency\par
room or an inpatient visit or whatever.\par
These are procedures this patient had\par
at different points in time.\par
And we know what each of those procedures are.\par
And these are drug exposures where we\par
have a notion of a drug year.\par
So we know, for this patient, when\par
they were prescribed a certain drug\par
and for the duration of that prescription.\par
And if they repeat the prescription,\par
we can construct these eras during which\par
we believe the patient was consuming a drug.\par
We also have conditions recorded for this patient.\par
So these are diagnosis that this patient had.\par
And finally we have observations.\par
These are basically lab values.\par
And for this patient we only have one set of lab values.\par
So you can see from this patient's record,\par
obviously this patient was having an encounter\par
with the health care system at the beginning of the two year\par
period.\par
And there's quite a lot of activity\par
in the middle of the period.\par
And then the patient is taking some drugs, essentially,\par
throughout the period.\par
So that's what these data look like.\par
So in the case with Metformin, I can hand you one million\par
of these, of objects that look like this.\par
And the task that we are engaged in,\par
we and hundreds or thousands of researchers around the world,\par
is can we use these data to infer the effects of Metformin?\par
Now that's one patient.\par
And that's a pretty standard, typical patient\par
and a modest amount of interaction\par
with the health care system.\par
Here's a different patient.\par
Again, these are real data.\par
So here this patient has rather a lot more\par
interactions with the health care system.\par
And in particular, as you can see,\par
this patient is taking quite a few drugs\par
throughout the two year period in this particular case.\par
Here's yet another patient.\par
And alas, there are actually many patients\par
like this in these databases.\par
This is a patient who obviously has had many interactions\par
with the health care system, lots and lots of visits,\par
many procedures, many drugs, and lots of different diagnosis\par
that this patient has had.\par
So the point of this is, and this might sound simple.\par
I give you the data for a milliion patients.\par
And you're just trying to figure out what Metformin causes.\par
But just glancing at these records,\par
I think it's sort of intuitive that maybe this isn't\par
so simple.\par
So look at this third patient here.\par
Supposing one of those drugs is Metformin, well,\par
and let's say, a potential side effect of Metformin, let's say,\par
it's a concern about some form of cancer,\par
is one of those conditions that appears\par
later on in this patient.\par
Well, it's going to be pretty tricky to figure out\par
was it the Metformin that caused that?\par
Or was it something else, some other drug that caused that?\par
Or was it something not drug related at all?\par
So that's the challenge here is can we\par
come up with methods, statistical and machine\par
learning methods, to figure out real,\par
basically to distinguish between real causes\par
and spurious associations.\par
That's the objective here.\par
Now as a matter of fact, many researchers\par
are conducting these kinds of studies\par
in these kinds of databases.\par
And medical journals are full of studies using these databases.\par
Here's a typical one.\par
This is an article that appeared a few years ago\par
in the British Medical Journal, a very\par
prestigious medical journal.\par
And this is a very standard type of paper.\par
Pick up any issue of any major medical journal.\par
And you will find papers just like this one.\par
So this particular paper concerns\par
a class of drugs called oral bisphosphonates.\par
These are drugs that are prescribed\par
to patients with osteoporosis.\par
And so brand names that you might have seen ads for\par
are drugs like Fosamax and Reclast and so on.\par
There are several of them.\par
This paper is about oral bisphosphonates,\par
this class of drugs, and the risk\par
of cancer of the esophagus I'm going to focus on here.\par
And so they're going to use, in this case,\par
it's an electronic health record database.\par
They're going to use a large scale database\par
like the cartoons we were just looking at to try and make\par
inference about a potential causal association\par
between oral bisphosphonates and cancer of the esophagus.\par
Basically we want to know, do these drugs\par
cause cancer of the esophagus?\par
In this particular case, this is actually September 2010,\par
this is the conclusion that they reached.\par
In this large, nested case control study,\par
so there they're describing the design of the study\par
that these authors conducted in the database,\par
it's a very standard type of study,\par
in this large, nested case control\par
study within a UK cohort, United Kingdom-based data,\par
it's a database called the General Practice Research\par
Database.\par
The authors concluded, we found a significantly increased risk\par
of esophageal cancer in people with previous prescriptions\par
for oral bisphosphonates.\par
Now you'll notice that they're not\par
using the word cause in there.\par
They're just saying they found a significantly increased risk.\par
But in actual fact, what we care about, of course, is causation.\par
We want to know is it these drugs\par
that caused the esophageal cancer?\par
And alas, unhappily, these authors\par
have concluded that yes.\par
Apparently these drugs do.\par
They found a significant increase\par
to the risk of esophageal cancer.\par
I should perhaps put this in context.\par
These authors are conducting this study for a reason.\par
There is a concern with these drugs\par
that they might cause esophageal cancer.\par
This concern has arisen from many different sources.\par
But there are a number of cases that have been\par
reported in the literature.\par
There are also so-called spontaneous report databases\par
where we have found reports of patients\par
on bisphosphonates subsequently having\par
diagnosis of esophageal cancer.\par
So this study, there's a context to this study.\par
It's not completely out of the blue.\par
In any event, large electronic health record\par
database focusing on a particular causal association,\par
bisphosphonates and esophageal cancer,\par
and concluding that there is a risk.\par
That's September 2010.\par
And right about the same time, actually the month before,\par
in JAMA, the Journal of the American Medical Association,\par
a paper appeared with a very similar title,\par
"Exposure to Oral Bisphosphonates and the Risk\par
of Esophageal Cancer".\par
So these authors basically studying the same issue.\par
And here's the conclusion that they drew.\par
Among patients in the UK General Practice Research Database,\par
the use of oral bisphosponates was not\par
significantly associated with incident esophageal\par
or gastric cancer.\par
So the opposite conclusion in other words.\par
One paper concludes that there is an association.\par
There's a significantly increased risk.\par
Watch out.\par
We better be careful.\par
The other paper concluding that there is not\par
a significant association between them.\par
Relax.\par
We don't have to worry about it.\par
The kicker here is, as you can see from the papers,\par
both sets of authors used the same database.\par
So two well regarded sets of researchers and analysts\par
analyzing the same data, focusing on the same issue,\par
and arriving at opposite conclusions.\par
So this is obviously quite a concern.\par
And one wonders if there's some fundamental flaw in the way\par
that we're conducting these studies that\par
could lead to this kind of a mess,\par
basically, where we've got conflicting\par
conclusions, in this case, using the same data.\par
So one might think that I chose this example\par
because it's unique in the history of science.\par
And I'm just using it to make a point.\par
And in actual fact, this is a very common phenomenon.\par
So I just show a set.\par
Very quickly, I've run through a set of other examples\par
of the same phenomenon.\par
And these are three or four examples\par
out of dozens or perhaps hundreds\par
that I could have chosen to make the point here.\par
Here's a paper in JAMA, very prestigious journal,\par
oral fluoroquinolones, this is a class of antibiotics,\par
and the risk of retinal detachment.\par
Same basic kind of issue.\par
We want to know do fluoroquinolones\par
cause retinal detachment.\par
And these authors used a large scale observational health care\par
database to examine this issue.\par
Paper published in August 2012.\par
And they concluded patients taking oral fluoroquinolones\par
were at higher risk of developing retinal attachment.\par
So these authors are saying there is an association.\par
Same journal, sometime later, same question,\par
different conclusion.\par
Oral fluoroquinolone use was not associated with increased risk\par
of retinal detachment.\par
I will go on.\par
Pioglitazone and bladder cancer.\par
This is an important public health issue.\par
Pioglitazone is a widely used diabetes medication.\par
And some evidence has emerged that these drugs might cause,\par
that this drug might cause bladder cancer.\par
This paper appeared in the British Journal\par
of Clinical Pharmacology.\par
In this study population, pietism\par
does not appear to be significantly associated\par
with an increased risk of bladder cancer.\par
Round about the same time, a paper\par
appeared in the British Medical Journal,\par
the use of Pioglitazone is associated with an increased\par
risk of incident bladder cancer among people with type 2\par
diabetes.\par
Opposite conclusions.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
 Status of Current Observational Health Studies\par
}
 