{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So what I'm going to do right now,\par
I'm going to take all these equations, with the parameters,\par
with the data and what not, and I'm\par
going to just represent the same thing we did in a graph.\par
Why I'm going to do that?\par
Because this graph is going to help us later on,\par
A, to understand all the bits of the model and B,\par
to understand how the model could be expanded\par
to, for example, different context, for example,\par
adding new data, for example, adding different complexities\par
to the model.\par
So, remember what we had before?\par
It was just sales that was represented as y.\par
So this is the main variable we have, sales each store,\par
each week.\par
So when I'm going to put a square,\par
it means that I observed this piece of information.\par
When I don't know the parameter, I'm\par
going to put a circle instead.\par
So graphically, everything we just did\par
is like, same as saying OK, sales for each week of it's\par
t, Depend on, say, price, i t.\par
Again, square.\par
Why?\par
Because I have certain data.\par
It was also a function of the display.\par
Again, square.\par
But we know there was some parameter that\par
was with price, some parameter that went with display also\par
some parameter beta 0 that was the day sales.\par
But also there was something else in this model, right?\par
It was the measure of uncertainty\par
of how is the variance of week after week of sales.\par
So there was this sigma square.\par
So this is a very convoluted way,\par
we're going to simplify in a second\par
but the idea is that everything I\par
said before could be represented as this.\par
The squares are going to mean our data.\par
The circles are going to mean our parameters.\par
And these other squares are also data\par
we observed that fit into the main variable.\par
So this is the dependent variable.\par
This is the covariates.\par
Now instead of driving a different kind\par
of box and a different circle for the combination\par
of parameters, another way to do this exactly could be to say,\par
look.\par
I am going to put here, in this box\par
here, I'm going to define that as all the data I know,\par
X i t and this covers all of them.\par
Covers display, coves price.\par
If we had more information, we could incorporate them\par
into the model.\par
And then I'm going to define a parameter, a vector of betas,\par
which is what's described before was I call it\par
like these beta, which is a vector, which is exactly\par
the same as I did before.\par
Graphically, our model says that sales\par
for store i for week t for the relationship that\par
is it's a combination of the data we are served\par
in the covariates, parameter beta, and parameter sigma\par
squared.\par
So what is this?\par
This is the simplified version of the model we just did.\par
For those who have read something about the topic\par
and for those that you're going to be reading more\par
about the topic, you're going to become\par
familiar to some concept which is called\par
a directed acyclic graph.\par
What is that exactly?\par
This is it.\par
A graph representing what is the data and then\par
has to be some directed relationships.\par
Why directed?\par
Because what we know is that the probability of these given\par
these follows a normal distribution.\par
So it's given these, once I know these I'm\par
going to know the probability of y, so that's why it's directed.\par
And these, exactly why?\par
Because if, for example, these graph now I would say something\par
like, but do you know what?\par
And then beta depends on how much the store\par
is going to sell Coca-Cola.\par
So I do something like that.\par
Well, let me tell you we cannot solve this model because this\par
model is cyclical.\par
So we cannot estimate a beta that affects sales,\par
which at the same time, the sales are affecting beta.\par
So this is a very good way to represent the models\par
and to understand what we're going to be estimating.\par
Again, in this model I just described,\par
this is a very, very simple exercise.\par
Later on when we'll start adding complexity to the models,\par
we will see how this becomes much more useful.\par
So strictly speaking, when you look at any of the DAGs,\par
what happens is that generally you don't observe,\par
you don't include the observed data.\par
The way these models are generally represented is just,\par
I'm going to just clean this one here,\par
these models are purely represented by,\par
what is the data?\par
What are the parameters?\par
And then it's very good to think about what we discussed\par
that was the unit of analysis.\par
Well, I'm saying here that the sales\par
of pizza store of each week follow our distribution\par
with these parameters, so generally what\par
we do in these graphs is we draw boxes for the unit of analysis,\par
which is, for example, everything that is inside\par
this box is at the level of the store,\par
at the level of the week.\par
The parameters, they lie outside this box,\par
are parameters that do not vary over time or over stores.\par
If we had parameters that are different parameters\par
for different stores, then those parameters\par
would be inside some box that has some i in it.\par
The idea of representing a whole model in a graph\par
helps us understanding what is homogeneous across all stores\par
and across time, what varies over time, etc.\par
So this is a very simple version in which\par
only the data varies across time and across the stores\par
and then the parameters are outside it.\par
The pretty much one of the simplest model\par
I can think about will be building complexity\par
into these models so we can actually answer more questions.\par
And before we jump into segment two in which we will be talking\par
about how to actually estimate this model,\par
how to infer the relationships in this model,\par
how to understand the parameters, before we go there\par
we're going to take a quick step and we're\par
going to have some concept check of what we discovered,\par
what we covered today.\par
And you're going to be doing some exercises for that.\par
So what did we cover in this segment?\par
Very briefly first of all, what the goals of any analysis?\par
Why are we modeling this?\par
We have to have that in mind very, very early on.\par
Otherwise, why model it?\par
So in this example and many others that follow,\par
what are the goals of the analysis?\par
Well, we wanted to understand behavior.\par
And by that we mean, what is the relationship between actions\par
that business make to actually what happens to the outcome,\par
in this case was demand.\par
Then once we understand that, what we want to do eventually\par
is to make predictions.\par
And in the following segment we will\par
see exactly how we use the model we just described\par
to predict sales over time.\par
So with these goals in mind, then\par
other things we discussed today was, well,\par
let's think about the inputs in our model.\par
The inputs in the model are going to be the data.\par
And the good news for us is that we'll have plenty of it.\par
So I got started with a very, very aggregated level data,\par
which is the sales per store.\par
Later on we'll use actual source of information\par
about actually which customers buy what.\par
And also we can add many, many other covariates nowadays\par
because we can measure many other things.\par
Now this is inputs.\par
Then once we start modeling this data,\par
we have to make certain assumptions.\par
And this is actually one of the challenges in model building\par
is to make sure that the assumptions we're making\par
are valid.\par
Again, we will talk about validity of this model\par
later on, but just from today we know\par
that there were two things in which we were\par
making our own assumptions.\par
One is the one we spent most of our time\par
we're talking about the likelihood function.\par
So the likelihood function again, it\par
was this relationship between the inputs and output\par
that we assume.\par
In our case was sales are a linear combination\par
of price and display.\par
This was one of the assumptions.\par
The other set of assumptions that we\par
have to make as a modeler are the prior.\par
And as I said, for now, we'll use the informative priors\par
because we have plenty of data and we don't need\par
to worry about that that much.\par
Now with all that in mind, what are going to be the outputs?\par
The outputs of this model, which is\par
what we're going to do in the next segment,\par
are exactly the posterior.\par
What is the posterior again?\par
Is the probability of these parameters given the data I\par
have.\par
Which is exactly what everything manager is\par
interested in understanding the behavior meaning\par
what are those betas?\par
Do people respond really to prices?\par
Do people respond really to this place?\par
This is what we will do.\par
And now just to check, just to double check out the concept,\par
we discussed also what is a directed acyclic graph, which\par
is going to be just a way to describe our model\par
building that is going to help us understand,\par
and what goes where, how to estimate things,\par
and how to actually add complexity in modeling.\par
With this I'm going to leave you with some questions\par
and we will see in the next segment.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
Next \par
}
 