{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So let's jump into the data, and let's jump into the results.\par
Remember from the model.\par
What we were looking at basically\par
was how do sales respond to changes of price and display?\par
So now we build the model.\par
We collected the data.\par
We run this data through the computer,\par
and what the computer does to us is it just draws,\par
just keeps drawing from the posterior distribution.\par
So what did I get by drawing from this posterior\par
distribution?\par
What I put here are the results for price,\par
so this exactly here is the posterior distribution\par
of the parameter that was with price.\par
That parameter was, I think, beta one.\par
Beta 1 was the parameter that was linking with sales,\par
and this is how this posterior parameter looks like.\par
So what do we learn from here?\par
From here, I can summarize this histogram.\par
I can give you the histogram.\par
But if we're going to have to report in many, many values,\par
then generally it is better to go with a table\par
and give some numbers that people are more\par
used to understanding.\par
So for example, from the histogram, what I computed was,\par
what is the posterior mean, meaning what\par
is the average outcome from this distribution, which\par
happens to be minus 102.5.\par
That number should be somewhere around here, second row\par
here, more or less.\par
This is going to be where the average is going to be.\par
And then I can also look at what is\par
the posterior central interval.\par
What do I mean by that?\par
Around the central part of the distribution,\par
I'm going to give you an interval that\par
is more likely to happen.\par
So for example in this case, what I did,\par
the numbers minus 115.1, which is\par
going to be somewhere around here, and minus 89.9,\par
which is going to be somewhere around the 90,\par
almost in the 90.\par
What it means is that all these outcomes compose 95%\par
of probability of happening.\par
In other words, with 95% certainty,\par
I can tell you that the outcome of this parameter\par
lies within this interval.\par
So in many cases when you look at the results\par
of Bayesian statistics, you will see the posterior mean.\par
In this case, it's going to be this number,\par
but it's always more complete to also report\par
not only the posterior mean but also the interval.\par
Why?\par
Because to give us an idea of how uncertain\par
we are about this quantity, so now we\par
know what a histogram represents,\par
how to actually summarize it.\par
Now, the question is, what does it mean?\par
What does it mean in this particular case\par
that the posterior mean of the beta for price is minus 102?\par
For this, we have to go back to our model\par
and remember that our model was something on the way--\par
sales of each store in its time followed a normal distribution\par
that it was here.\par
We had a beta parameter, beta zeta\par
plus beta 1 price plus beta 2 display.\par
Sorry, we had a variance here for the norm.\par
So what this posterior mean means is that if you increase\par
the price by 1 unit, then sales are\par
going to increase by minus 102.\par
Let's put that in better English.\par
This means that, well, if you were\par
to increase the price of this products,\par
if you were to increase the price by $1, then\par
sales in number of units, we expect\par
it to decline by 102 units, which makes sense.\par
When you increase price, most people buy less,\par
and this is what this model is representing here.\par
Now, let's try to understand also\par
what happens to the beta 2, which\par
is the parameter for display.\par
So I did exactly the same.\par
For the model for display what I am going to do\par
is I'm going to also show you the histogram,\par
but I'm going to also show you the summaries\par
for the posterior, both the posterior mean\par
and the posterior interval.\par
What do we have here?\par
The posterior mean in this case is about 87.7,\par
which is going to be somewhere here approximately,\par
and then we have the posterior interval,\par
which is going to be from 72, which\par
is about here, to 103, which is going to be somewhere here.\par
So again, what is this saying to us?\par
We can say that given the data at hand\par
in these particular markets, what\par
happens is that when you add more\par
marketing into these products by adding display to them,\par
the way we measure display, then sales are going to be going up.\par
By how much?\par
Well, we have to go back to the unit in which display\par
was represented.\par
In this case, it was that percentage.\par
It was something between 0 and 1,\par
which is the proportion of products that I had on display,\par
and then we have to relate that to sales.\par
So one could think about it and say, well,\par
if instead of being point 1 displace point 2,\par
I just have increased the unit by 0.1,\par
then sales are going to increase by 8 units.\par
Why 8?\par
Because it's going to be 87 times 0.1,\par
which is the unit that increased.\par
So interpretation in this case depends on two things.\par
One is where the numbers I'm obtaining for this posterior\par
distribution.\par
In this case, I am using the posterior central interval.\par
There are other metrics for that,\par
but this is the one I'm picking for this example.\par
Those numbers, and now I have to take these numbers to the model\par
and understand what they actually represent in terms\par
of my outcome, which was sales.\par
So before we keep talking about the insights\par
that we get from this model, one thing that is very important\par
which I'm going to mention here in one particular metric--\par
but there are many others.\par
I would recommend readings for that.\par
One very important thing is to actually check\par
that our model is valid, meaning does our model really\par
represent the data properly?\par
Because we could estimate any model.\par
We could make any assumptions about what\par
sales would look like following a gamma\par
distribution, a normal distribution,\par
but we don't really know whether those parameters that we\par
have interpreted right now actually make sense.\par
So in order to do that, what we need to do\par
is validate the model.\par
How am I going to show you some idea of how\par
to validate the model here?\par
Well, let's look at if actually the model is\par
very good at predicting actual sales.\par
So how do we do that?\par
What I'm going to do is I'm going\par
to convert the actual data, which I observe perfectly,\par
with the amount of sales that our model would predict\par
given the information we have.\par
So a little bit of kind of notation,\par
again, I'm going to show here.\par
The model we were estimating was sales,\par
was following a normal distribution of some parameters\par
and some variance.\par
Remember?\par
And what I have been doing now is\par
I have been interpreting those betas.\par
So how can I actually see if this model predicts the data\par
properly or accurately?\par
One way to look at that is I know x because this\par
is the data I know.\par
I know price.\par
I know display.\par
Now I have estimated the betas, and I have estimated also\par
sigma, even though now we are not going to spend time\par
interpreting sigma.\par
But this is the parameter you estimate from the model.\par
Now, I can take the two unknowns that now I know.\par
I can plug into the data, and what I can perfectly do\par
is I can predict what sales would look like if I exactly\par
knew x, beta, and sigma.\par
And this is exactly computing the predicted values\par
of the model.\par
And it's very easy to do it in Bayesian\par
because the only thing you need to do\par
is in every single draw, when I draw\par
beta and sigma in my estimation, I just\par
have to plug those numbers into the equation for sales.\par
And I'm going to compute what would be the predicted sales\par
for that week for that store.\par
So this is exactly what I have done here,\par
so now let's look at how these predictions look like.\par
So here what I did is on the x-axis,\par
we have over time of the number of weeks.\par
Here, just for illustration, I pick one of the stores.\par
Here on the y-axis, we have the amount of sales the store has,\par
and this is the line for how sales evolve over\par
time for this particular store.\par
Now, given the model, every time I\par
draw this beta and this sigma, what I did\par
is very easily just computed predicted sales.\par
So now let's look at how these two\par
lines would compare together.\par
So, well, actually, our model is doing a pretty good job\par
at actually understanding the fluctuation of sales\par
and definitely of getting the mean level for sales.\par
These models-- I mean, one could think,\par
well, these two peaks here are not captured by the model.\par
These peaks in the model we just did\par
will be these differences there.\par
It could be the amount of error we\par
have for that particular observation.\par
If, for example, we look at the calendar,\par
and we see that these peaks correspond to, for example,\par
a holiday season, we can easily add that information\par
into the model, something that we discuss very soon\par
after this interpretation.\par
So this is one way to validate the model.\par
There are plenty of summary statistics\par
and different metrics to look at that.\par
Again, I'm not going to cover all these metrics here.\par
I will refer again to you to Gelman's book,\par
but this is just a daily of getting behind.\par
We need to validate the model.\par
We have to understand how the model actually fits the data.\par
Now, once we have a model that is validated,\par
we know how to, A, interpret the betas,\par
interpret the parameters in the model\par
and see what those imply in business.\par
Another thing that we can do is instead of just predicting\par
what would have happened--\par
well, we know what happened.\par
But could we predict what would have\par
happened should the manager have changed prices?\par
That is an outcome that is very easy for us to change.\par
Why?\par
Because we have already modeled how sales relate to this axis,\par
so now what I did is just from my own estimation,\par
the same way I predicted these sales--\par
this is the predicted sales I just showed.\par
The same way I predicted those sales, what I can do\par
is say, look.\par
OK, I can take the current prices.\par
I could cut prices by, say, $0.50 and see what happens\par
to the math.\par
This is how the model could be perfectly used\par
to actually forecast sales.\par
In this example, I used data just to show the same data,\par
but you should use it for future periods.\par
What I did is this is the predicted sales at the level\par
of price and display that we have observed in the data,\par
and this is exactly how sales would look if one went\par
to discount prices by $0.50.\par
As we discussed with the price coefficient,\par
we know that if we increase price, sales decrease.\par
The same way, when we decrease price, the sales increase.\par
And here with this type of plot, the manager\par
can understand how sales will respond to changes in price.\par
What if the manager also observes\par
a different type of data?\par
How will the model change if we have some more information that\par
could affect sales?\par
For example, what else can we observe?\par
Well, we know that depending where store is located,\par
maybe sales might change.\par
So I might be able to add some information about the location,\par
or even no location, but maybe I could add information\par
about how many people live around the store\par
or live or walk.\par
Imagine this is a store located in the middle of Times Square,\par
versus this is a store located in a very small place where\par
there's not a lot of kind of population density.\par
So that information could be important to actually model\par
sales more accurately.\par
Another way to look at more data that would be useful would be,\par
what if each store has been doing\par
different sorts of advertising, maybe sending advertising\par
to the houses around it?\par
Or another way to think about useful information\par
to this model would be, what if I\par
can collect the price of the competing products?\par
Our model was sales is a function of the price.\par
Say it's of Coca Cola.\par
It's a function of price of Coca Cola,\par
but what if I can also add the prices of Pepsi?\par
Prices of Pepsi will likely affect demand for Coca Cola\par
as well, so manager could also decide\par
to collect these pieces of information.\par
So now the question is now that we\par
expand the amount of information we have,\par
how is the model going to change to allocate this?\par
Well, the good news is that this is a very straightforward\par
exercise to do because if you remember very briefly what\par
we had before in the graph--\par
we had that sales were a function of the betas\par
and also a function of the sigmas.\par
Well, I know that these betas in my previous example\par
were beta 0, beta 1, and beta 2.\par
Correct?\par
And then I have the sigma squared.\par
Now, that was the constant.\par
Then I have the price, and I have the display.\par
Well, what if I incorporate the price of the competing product?\par
I can perfectly just say, I have another parameter in the model\par
that I'm going to add into the equation for sales,\par
and then this beta 3 is going to capture the affect of competing\par
product price on my sales.\par
If I have the density of the population around each store,\par
what I can have is a parameter that\par
measures the effect of that.\par
So all these pieces of information that we believe\par
may affect sales also in a linear way,\par
they can be actually modelled in the exact, exact same way\par
as we had before.\par
We will be keeping for now a simple model which\par
has the dependent variable.\par
Data is at the IT level.\par
And the parameters are common across all stores.\par
Very well.\par
So this is the end of the module,\par
so let's do some quick concept check\par
before we jump into the exercises.\par
First of all, we discussed a little bit\par
what is intuition behind what it means\par
to draw from a distribution.\par
I started with the example for the dice, which\par
is very easy for everybody to understand\par
what it means to roll dice.\par
Drawing from a posterior distribution\par
has exactly the same idea.\par
Our posterior distribution is going\par
to be a distribution of unknowns.\par
And how do we discover them?\par
By drawing for that distribution.\par
So estimating a computational in Bayesian\par
means I'm going to be drawing for a distribution such\par
that I can give you a summary of what\par
this distribution of unknowns looks like.\par
So as such, when we talk about the parameters in our model,\par
the parameters are not going to be numbers.\par
Those parameters are going to be outcomes.\par
Those outcomes are going to be a distribution.\par
How is it generally best to summarize the distribution?\par
Well, if you only have a few parameters in the model,\par
I would highly recommend to just show the histogram.\par
The histogram is the best representation\par
of what the distribution is going to look like.\par
In most of the cases, what happens\par
is we have many, many parameters in the model,\par
and then showing all the distribution\par
is actually even overwhelming.\par
So this is why most people use some sort of summary statistics\par
of that posterior distribution.\par
It's is very, very common to observe the posterior mean\par
and the posterior intervals.\par
These two numbers provide you an idea\par
of what is the average outcome but also what\par
is the uncertainty around it.\par
Now, once the parameters are obtained\par
and we understand where the parameter lies\par
within around these numbers or what is more likely to happen,\par
then interpretation is going to depend on two things.\par
It's going to depend on A, those numbers from the distribution.\par
Remember price?\par
The posterior mean was about minus 100,\par
and then there was an interval.\par
But what does it mean to sales, exactly?\par
For that, we have to revisit our likelihood function,\par
and we have to revisit the assumptions\par
and then interpret what happens.\par
With that, we're going to conclude this module,\par
and you're going to jump now to have some exercises.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 