{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 We're in the final segment of this model.\par
And what we're going to do in this segment\par
is we're going to apply what we have been covering before\par
about model building, and model estimation, and insights.\par
But what we're going to do now is\par
we're going to model individual level decisions.\par
What do I mean by that?\par
If you think about the store level data\par
we analyzed before, those were sales for a week,\par
in a particular store.\par
But all these sales, what are sales?\par
Sales are just the aggregation of multiple people making\par
decisions.\par
So nowadays, it's very, very easy\par
to collect data at individual level, which\par
is we're going to collect exact decision\par
that a person makes at a certain point in time.\par
So in this final module, what we're going to do--\par
final segment-- what we're going to do\par
is I'm going to use two different case studies with two\par
different data sets, that our data says that are really\par
available for many companies.\par
And I'm going to apply, based on statistics,\par
to keep looking for more insights\par
and how to actually learn something\par
about the customers doing freely what\par
they will do in the future.\par
The two case studies that I'm going cover here,\par
one refers to a membership organization,\par
say something like a museum that has an annual membership.\par
And the other one is going to be understanding how people\par
make decision in email content.\par
And I'm going to use an example of a company\par
similar to Groupon, or one of those that\par
sell deals in a daily basis.\par
So let's just start with the first business example.\par
As I said, this is what I'm going\par
to use is I'm going to use an organization.\par
Let's imagine it's a museum.\par
It could be, for example, in New York, The Museum of Modern Art.\par
Let's say the MOMA has a number of membership.\par
And the idea is that as the manager\par
wants to identify at the end of each year which customers\par
and which members or patrons are going\par
to be more likely to renew, because similarly he\par
will understand who of these people\par
will be less likely to renew.\par
Right?\par
So this manager, or this person in the organization,\par
has certain levels of data.\par
So what does she observe?\par
She knows, for example, in this particular case,\par
what are some pattern's characteristics, for example,\par
gender.\par
Also what they know is when somebody became a member,\par
the person was given some interests about, oh, I'm\par
more into photography, more into sculpture,\par
or other types of interest that the company asked\par
at the joining moment.\par
And also, the company has collected some information\par
along the year that whether the person went online and download\par
certain content, or whether the person actually\par
visited the museum.\par
So with this data at hand, I'm going to show you\par
how the data looks like.\par
With this data on hand, we're going\par
to model exactly this behavior.\par
And we're going to try to figure out\par
which customers, individual customers,\par
are more likely to make the decision of renewal\par
or not renewing, which is what the manager cares about.\par
So this is an example of the database I'm going to use.\par
We have different individuals.\par
Whether there female or male, I just coded it one being female.\par
And then, photography and sculpture\par
means that the person selected that box when they signed up\par
for the membership.\par
So these two are just like person specific.\par
I am a person that likes photography\par
versus some other person that also like sculpture,\par
or one of the other.\par
And then, the last two columns that I put here, those\par
are the data that the company has collected over the year.\par
So let's think how one could build a model\par
to actually estimate what is the probability that a person is\par
going to renew.\par
Notice now that this is when business statistics becomes\par
very useful.\par
The probability that a person is going to review\par
is not really observed, is it?\par
The only thing we observe is whether the person makes\par
a decision of renew or not.\par
So similar to the figure, the graph,\par
that I created when we were talking about store level data,\par
I'm going to do these for this particular example.\par
So one way to look at this is saying, well,\par
renew, the person I renew, right?\par
This is an observed variable.\par
That's why I'm going to use a square here.\par
It's a realization of some probability.\par
So let's imagine, just for the sake of the modeling building,\par
that each person has a coin.\par
At the end of the year, I'm going to flip my coin\par
and I'm going to decide whether to renew or not with the MOMA.\par
So the way we're going to think about that is everybody's\par
going to have an observed probability,\par
that I call PI, of renewing.\par
Now, how can I model this probability?\par
Well I can say, OK, this probability is observed.\par
I'm going to estimate that probability.\par
But this probability is going to be\par
a function of many other things that I observe.\par
So similar to the notation I introduced\par
before, what I'm going to do is say,\par
look this probability is going to be\par
some combination of some parameter vector\par
that I'm going to estimate.\par
And all of these characteristics that I\par
had like, for example, is going to be gender,\par
is going to be, for example, whether the person likes\par
the photography or whether the person likes the sculpture,\par
or how long since the person last visited the museum.\par
So these characteristics, what I'm going to do\par
is I'm going to make a linear combination of those\par
with a parameter beta.\par
This information is going to determine\par
my probability of renewing.\par
And then I'm going to assume that renewing follows,\par
for example, a Bernoulli--\par
Bernoulli is the flip of a coin--\par
of that particular probability.\par
So now, in this final segment, because I\par
want to introduce multiple ways in which we model of data,\par
I'm not going to go into the details of the modeling.\par
And I'm going to jump into the results.\par
The idea of modeling this, the estimate in this model\par
is the same as we did before when\par
we were talking about sets.\par
So let's see what the results are.\par
Which results I'm going to show you?\par
I'm going to show you two types of results.\par
One is the betas, the same way we did in the previous example.\par
We wanted to analyze relationship\par
between some observables and the rest of the behavior,\par
and then we do that through the parameters.\par
But here, I have introduced a new thing.\par
I have introduced a parameter that is individual.\par
For each person, I am going to estimate this probability,\par
and it's unobserved.\par
So I cannot feed data into these.\par
I'm going to feed the data into these.\par
This is all I know, renewal and other types of behavior.\par
And with the business statistics,\par
I'm going to estimate these, and I'm going to gather the betas.\par
But also, I'm going to compute what\par
is the probability that a person is going to renew.\par
So let's look at the results.\par
So what happens if we have multiple observations\par
per person?\par
What happens if we observe people year after year?\par
So this is what happens.\par
What we can do is we can perfectly adapt our model\par
to incorporate the fact that I have multiple observations\par
per person year after year.\par
So what I'm going to do is I'm going to change colors,\par
but I'm going to adapt this model to account for the fact\par
I actually have a richer data.\par
So what would happen here?\par
Here I put renew, the person, i, renews.\par
Why?\par
Because I had one observation of renew.\par
But now I'm going to see people over time.\par
So what I have, really, is whether the person, i, renews\par
at period t.\par
Right?\par
So one way to do this I could say, look, each person\par
has an enhanced probability of renewing.\par
I'm a person who really, really likes\par
the museum versus another person who doesn't really\par
like it that much.\par
So what I'm going to model is I'm\par
going to model all these data points that I have per person,\par
all these years year after year after a person totally cancels,\par
as just a function of the same probability\par
that is constant across time.\par
That would be one way to model this.\par
If we think about the hierarchy of this model,\par
we have up to here, we have the level of aggregation\par
here would be the unit, would be i and would be t.\par
Remember we talked about units?\par
Here, we'll be talking at the level of the individual.\par
Here, would be just the person, because we\par
have an individual level parameter, which\par
is undermined by some data and some of the parameters.\par
This is one way to model these when\par
we have multiple data points.\par
But let's think about something.\par
Here, what I said earlier, was that these probability\par
that the person, i, renews was a function\par
of many, many observances.\par
But some of these things actually\par
happen to change over time.\par
The gender, in this case, does no changing.\par
Whether the person is interested in photography or not\par
is not changing, because that's something\par
that the person's stated when the person joined.\par
But I was talking about other characteristics,\par
such as the number of downloads.\par
Or, for example, how many months since the last visit.\par
These two variables should not be\par
going to a parameter that is constant over time,\par
because these variables change over time.\par
So how I'm going to do this?\par
The way I'm going to do this is by actually not\par
estimating just one probability per person forever.\par
What I'm going to do is modeling and estimating\par
the probability that each person is going to renew each year.\par
So what I can do is I can say, look,\par
the probability of renewing person i in time t\par
is the same model as I did before.\par
This is going to be t, right?\par
But I also observe renewal times the person i times t plus 1.\par
Renewal the person i times t minus 1.\par
And each of these ones is going to be a gain of Bernoulli,\par
a realization of a coin.\par
The only thing that I am assuming here\par
is that the coin is changing year after year.\par
So a reasonable way to model this\par
would be thinking, well I'm putting here\par
a coin that is changing every year.\par
Fine.\par
How can I characterize that coin and how can I\par
estimate something that is relevant for the manager?\par
Well what I could do something is say, look,\par
I know that some people really like the arts and others not.\par
They just happen to be less excited about it.\par
So the way I'm going to do this is\par
that these probabilities that change\par
over time, what I'm going to assume\par
is they all come for some individual level parameter,\par
in this case individual level characteristic.\par
It could be related to gender.\par
It could be related to interest.\par
But also could be related to something\par
that I don't even know.\par
But I am going to estimate with the model.\par
How I'm going to estimate this in the model?\par
What does it mean?\par
These mu that I just drew here is\par
something that is going to affect\par
all the probabilities that a person, i, renews overtime.\par
But it's something individually specific.\par
Something about this person could be perfectly be the fact\par
that this person has a lot of spare time versus not.\par
We do not observe that in the model,\par
but we will estimate it conditional to the fact\par
that we'll have multiple observations\par
for multiple people.\par
In this case, because this is something I don't observe,\par
I'm going to assume these parameter\par
full of some distribution across the population,\par
I'm going to assume that this is going\par
to be following a normal distribution with parameter--\par
and I'm going to call the beta, no I'm going to call\par
this parameter the beta i.\par
And I'm going to call, this is going to be\par
the mean of this parameter n.\par
The variance of this parameter is\par
going to be something that I will estimate.\par
This part here is just capturing the fact\par
that I have multiple observations per person.\par
Hence, I can estimate something about it.\par
This inherent probability of like in the arts, for example,\par
are having a lot of time, affects in every single period\par
the probability that the person would renew.\par
But also, there will be all other aspects, other factors\par
such as, for example, how many times you\par
went to the museum, how the exhibitions of the museum\par
have changed over time.\par
There will be many other observables\par
that we are going to relate to the model\par
in its particular period.\par
So what I just did is sparsely complicating the graph.\par
It looks like commands of arrows and boxes and unobservables.\par
But the idea here is that once I can lay all my assumptions\par
about how data is realized, this is how\par
I'm going to build my model.\par
What are the assumptions for this messy part here?\par
Well the assumptions are as follows.\par
We have people renew year after year.\par
All of a sudden, somebody doesn't renew.\par
And then, all of the sudden, the person is no more.\par
What I'm assuming here is that every time somebody's\par
going to make the decision, individual decision,\par
of renewing, this is just flipping a coin\par
that this probably reflects the fact\par
that I'm very likely to renew or not that likely to renew.\par
So let's say I've been a member of MOMA for six years now.\par
That means that when I was flipping this coin six times,\par
I had a high chance to renew.\par
Right?\par
These high coined was a function of something personal of me,\par
something that, in particular, I really like the arts, of I\par
enjoy going to the museum on the weekends,\par
or I have a lot of time on the weekends.\par
And was also reflecting the fact that there\par
were other things happened to change over time that\par
affect my individual decisions.\par
Now, can we estimate this model?\par
Well what this models needs to be estimated is multiple\par
observations of these behavior for a lot of people,\par
for a lot of i's for a lot of t's.\par
And then, as long as these unobservables are all\par
dependent on each other, but there's\par
no circular relationship between them,\par
I should be able to estimate.\par
Why?\par
This is the data.\par
What is the probability of the data given the parameters?\par
I know exactly how it all looks like.\par
I know the probability of renewing,\par
given that I know the coins.\par
But I don't know the coins, do I?\par
No, the coins are going to be a function\par
of these individual parameters, and also the external factors,\par
such as, for example, the exhibitions\par
that the year was offering in the museum.\par
And now, again, I don't know these, do I?\par
I don't know this individual inherent trait\par
of going to the museum or not.\par
Well but that's why I'm going to estimate\par
how these is distributed across the population.\par
What I need at the end of the day,\par
once I put a prior for this parameter, this parameter,\par
and this parameter, I should be able to estimate\par
a whole system, conditional on the fact\par
that I have enough information so the posterior\par
is going to really learn from the data\par
what all these parameters look like.\par
We're going to stop here with this example.\par
We're going to look at more examples in which we also\par
have more dynamics in it.\par
But I'm going to stop for now and we're\par
going to have a little break to do an exercise.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 