{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So let's jump to the final business\par
example of this module.\par
In the previous one with museum, we introduced the fact\par
that we can model individual-level decisions,\par
just individuals with probabilities of,\par
for example in that case, renewing the contract or not.\par
What I want to introduce in this new business example\par
is also the reality--\par
which is very, very common--\par
which is we don't only observe one behavior per person.\par
Many times, we observe multiple things.\par
In the case of the museum, it could be-- well,\par
the museum observes if you renew or not.\par
But they also observe, for example,\par
if you donate some extra money at the moment of renewal.\par
So when you have multiple outcomes that you observe,\par
nothing stops you from just modeling them all together.\par
And, actually, the Bayesian plot line\par
is a very good framework to actually\par
be able to model multiple behaviors together.\par
And this is an example in which I'm\par
going to show you how, in this case, I did it.\par
So let's think about a business that sells online.\par
And what they do is every day they send you\par
an email with multiple deals in it.\par
You can click and buy some of it.\par
The very, very big example is Groupon.\par
Groupon is a company that's exactly that.\par
You have also LivingSocial, Gilt,\par
and many, many other websites.\par
So let's think about that company and the data they have\par
and what they could be interested in figuring out\par
from those data.\par
So, in this example--\par
let's say, for example, think of Groupon.\par
What the manager really wants-- the goal of this modeling\par
exercise is going to be--\par
the manager at the end of the day,\par
she wants to increase purchases.\par
She wants people to click on more deals\par
and to buy more things.\par
What does she observe, though?\par
So, here, because this interaction\par
is generally, very easy to see behaviors online.\par
So I'm going to assume here they have some summary data, summary\par
because they are not going to be modeling\par
every single click of the person, though they could.\par
What I have put here is I've put here a semi-clean data set\par
from one of these companies.\par
It's a real company.\par
And I put here a semi-clean data set\par
that includes the following:\par
Each day, the manager observes a few things.\par
One is the deals they show.\par
I know exactly my product offerings on that day.\par
So they know what is the price or what is the discount;\par
where it is located; whether its sports, bars,\par
travel, et cetra-- a lot of characteristics of the deal.\par
The company also knows many characteristics of the person.\par
Sometimes when you sign up for the service,\par
you tell them where you live.\par
You tell them, for example, your gender, your age,\par
your interests.\par
So these would be pieces of information\par
that I use for specifics.\par
Those things could change over time\par
or could not change over time.\par
And then, very interestingly, what the company observes\par
is what happens when they send you an email.\par
And this activity is the activity the manager's\par
is interested in mainly.\par
Why?\par
Because, if at the end of the day\par
she wants to increase purchases, what she's going to do\par
is she's going to model clicks, which\par
is where the purchases happen.\par
What I'm going to do in this example--\par
I'm going to illustrate how instead of just focusing\par
on clicks, I'm going to model all the other behaviors that\par
also happen per individual which will help me understand\par
all this clicking behavior.\par
So how am I going to look at this?\par
Let's start by looking briefly at just one kind of the data.\par
What I have here is, I have the same person,\par
the same ID multiple times which importance\par
is that each day this person has received an email.\par
So individual one receives an email on January 1.\par
What do I observe as a manager?\par
I observe whether she opens, whether she clicks,\par
and whether she unsubscribes or opts out from the service.\par
Other things I know-- the same as I described before.\par
For example, in this example, I know\par
the location of individual.\par
I know exactly the coordinates when the person signed up\par
because I got that set from the computer.\par
And I have many other characteristics.\par
And among the deals, also I know I send you an email.\par
So I can easily compute as a manager,\par
what is the average discount of that email?\par
Or what would be the maximum discount?\par
I can have all sorts of characteristics\par
that I observe because it's my product offering.\par
So now let's think about how one could\par
model this data to give insights to the manager\par
as to how to increase sales.\par
I'm going to start with the most simple.\par
The most simple approach could be, well, purchases\par
are our clicks, correct?\par
So what I can do is I can say, look, I observed\par
whether a person clicked.\par
Person i, clicks on day t.\par
So I can say, look, I'm going to observe\par
this for many, many days.\par
So my assumption is going to be, somebody's\par
going to click or not also by flipping a coin.\par
It's the same as the museum but different.\par
So I'm going to flip a coin.\par
I'm person i on day t.\par
I'm going to decide whether to click or not on the email.\par
So I assume there's going to be a probability that makes me\par
click or not.\par
Now, I could be a person with a very high probability,\par
in general, of clicking because I like a lot of stuff.\par
I like going out.\par
I like buying deals for bars or for restaurants.\par
So what I'm going to do is I'm going\par
to capture the fact that this probability is\par
going to have some component--\par
similar cycle as before-- some component\par
that this individual, the person who is a clicker- let's\par
call it that way.\par
But this person, this probability,\par
could depend also on something that\par
is totally variable over time, which\par
is going to be, for example, variables like,\par
what is the discount?\par
And you're offering a date, at time t.\par
Or, for example, let's call it, what is the type of deal\par
that you included?\par
Did you include restaurants, for example,\par
on that particular email because I always buy restaurants?\par
So there will be a parameter here, that I call alpha again,\par
that is going to capture the relationship of those things\par
that change over time with those things that\par
are individual characteristics.\par
I'm going to predict your probability of clicking today.\par
And then I'm going to observe click.\par
Now, as I said, I'm going to include\par
these individual parameters.\par
What do I mean by that?\par
Again, this is something unobservable.\par
Every time I put a circle around it,\par
it's something I don't know.\par
But it's something I'm going to be able to figure out\par
with the model and the data.\par
In this case, let's say, it's like you know,\par
people are heterogeneous on the extent they click on emails,\par
on the extent they buy things from the internet.\par
So I'm going to assume that these parameters distributed\par
across a population with a normal distribution of mean mu\par
beta and sigma beta.\par
So the model I just described right now\par
has an i t component, which is individual times t.\par
We know that.\par
Oh, it goes up to here.\par
i t .\par
Then this is up to level i.\par
And all these parameters are what we call\par
population-level parameters.\par
So if I'm going to make inferences for the company\par
as to how to sell more--\par
well, how do you sell more?\par
You sell more when people have higher probabilities.\par
How do people have higher probabilities?\par
Well, if I learn about alpha, if I learn what in the deals--\par
is it discounts, the prices, the type, is it\par
the picture you insert?\par
What in the deals is making people have high probability?\par
That's one way.\par
The other one is, look.\par
This beta i recognizes that not everybody has\par
the same propensity to click.\par
So by modeling this and looking at the beta i's and how\par
the beta i's are distributed--\par
the same way as we did with the probabilities of renewal.\par
If I estimate this model, I can figure it out beta i\par
across everybody.\par
And I can sort people on the basis of their beta i.\par
That way the model will allow you\par
to detect who are the customers who have a higher propensity\par
to click naturally.\par
So that way the manager would understand,\par
A, what in the email makes them click but, B, also,\par
how is the heterogeneity in the population?\par
Who are the people who are more likely to click or not?\par
This would be a very easy approach\par
to model such a problem.\par
Now, let's complicate things a little bit\par
and think about, you know, but I also observe,\par
if somebody opens the email and if somebody unsubscribes\par
the email.\par
So could I model those behaviors as well\par
and learn more about how people purchase in this environment?\par
What I can perfectly do and very easily do,\par
is the same way that I observe clicks,\par
I can say, look, I also observe open behavior.\par
And I also observe unsubscription behavior.\par
Person i t, person i t.\par
So this probability of clicking is not\par
going to be the probability in which--\par
I'm not going to flip the same coin to unsubscribe.\par
I might have a different coin.\par
This is the probability of opening.\par
This is the coin of clicking.\par
And this is the coin of unsubscription.\par
So far I could perfectly model these independently.\par
This could be a model.\par
This could be a model.\par
This could be another model.\par
But the idea here is that I am able to connect\par
these pieces by the individual characteristics.\par
That's it.\par
I said before that this beta i captures\par
some individual traits, some characteristics of the person\par
that I do not observe as the manager,\par
but that determines the fact that this person clicks a lot.\par
Well, what if I estimate this parameter, this effector,\par
that is going to have a combination of--\par
OK, a person is a heavy clicker.\par
A person is a heavy or light opener.\par
And a person is a high or a low unsubscription rate.\par
They're a person who has a higher chance to unsubscribe\par
or a lower chance to unsubscribe.\par
So now what I'm putting here is this beta.\par
Let me put it here just as an example.\par
This beta-- I put a hat because now it's going to be a vector.\par
Let's say 0.2, 0.5, 0.9.\par
Why did I put three dimensions?\par
Because it's going to refer to three probabilities.\par
And another person, say beta j is another person.\par
It's like 0.1, 0.5, and, say, we'll put a 2 here.\par
So know that these numbers are not necessarily\par
the probabilities but are numbers\par
that feed into a probability.\par
I will make a mathematical transformation\par
to make sure that this p i stays between zero and one.\par
That's just like a useful transformations.\par
So if I connect the three behaviors\par
within the same underlying latent\par
trait, what I'm learning?\par
What I'm learning is that--\par
let's say beta is monotonic with p, meaning the higher\par
the beta, the higher the p.\par
Let's say that is transformation and the mathematical\par
transformation of these arrows.\par
So what I know is that, for example, this person--\par
i versus j, this person is going to have a higher--\par
given that they observe the same email,\par
this person will have a higher probability\par
of opening, a higher probability of clicking\par
than this person given open.\par
And compared to j, she's going to have a lower\par
probability of unsubscription.\par
I'm just doing relative between i and j.\par
I would have the whole histogram of people.\par
I will have 5,000, 10,000, 1 million customers.\par
I can estimate what are the probabilities--\par
not the probabilities, but the inherent\par
propensities to do each of the behaviors more or less.\par
Why this is relevant?\par
Well, because I actually estimated\par
a model similar to this.\par
And this is what I found.\par
What I found is that, by allowing\par
for an individual underlying parameter affecting these three\par
behaviors, I can understand the relation between those.\par
But for example, I'm not going out\par
into the details of the results because of time constraints\par
now.\par
But I'm going to tell you more or less what I\par
can find with a model as such.\par
What I find with a model as such is that I find people.\par
This beta free.\par
This beta, I'm going to estimate a distribution of that.\par
This beta's a vector that is allowed to be as high or as low\par
as minus infinity if that's infinity of multiple behaviors.\par
What I found in this particular example\par
using the data from a company similar to Groupon\par
was that I pretty much found three types of customers.\par
And these three types of customers\par
were all determined by how their beta i's looked like.\par
What I thought was a group of customers\par
that were a very, very high probability, very\par
high probability to click, and very low probability\par
to unsubscribe.\par
So I got a bunch of people--\par
a bunch of i's--\par
who's beta i was like that.\par
It makes the person who's going to open a lot,\par
is going to click a lot, and is going\par
to unsubscribe very little.\par
But also I found a bunch of j's, a bunch\par
of people, other customers, who--\par
based on the data, what I found was that these people\par
were opening a lot.\par
However, these people were not clicking at all.\par
And you know what?\par
These people were much more likely to unsubscribe\par
than those here.\par
And then, finally, and unfortunately for the company,\par
I also found another group of customers--\par
here I'm going to put k--\par
in which the vector k told me more or less\par
what their behavior was.\par
And their behavior was as follows.\par
These people were not opening at all.\par
They were not clicking.\par
And they were not unsubscribing.\par
These people were not doing absolutely anything.\par
So, in this case, by combining the three behaviors\par
within the same underlying parameter\par
or set of parameters, what I can do\par
is I can estimate those parameters,\par
look at the posterior, and then understand them.\par
By looking at those parameters, I\par
understood that I could perfectly\par
have three segments in the population that,\par
based on the estimates for the individual parameters,\par
have very different behavior.\par
So I'm going to stop it here because it's very, very messy.\par
And I'm not going to get into estimation details.\par
But I wanted here is to illustrate what--\par
with the Bayesian model, you can actually\par
expand the complexity of the model\par
such that you can figure out many other observables that\par
are going to make you make better decisions.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 