{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 For our next example, we'll look at time trends\par
and public attitude towards abortion.\par
As I'm sure you're aware, abortion is a polarizing issue.\par
Democrats, on average, are much more supportive\par
of abortion rights than Republicans,\par
with independents in between.\par
But as this graph from the national election study shows,\par
this pattern is relatively recent.\par
Only since the Bill Clinton era, only since 1992,\par
have there been such sharp differences\par
between Democratic and Republican voters.\par
Even in the 1980s, as late as the '80s,\par
when Ronald Reagan was president,\par
voters for the Democrats and voters for the Republicans\par
did not differ in any meaningful way on their attitude\par
towards abortion.\par
This is a pattern we'd like to understand and model\par
for a couple reasons.\par
First, the increasing polarization\par
of American politics is a cause for concern.\par
Abortion is an example of partisan polarization.\par
Second, abortion has sometimes been considered\par
to be a potential wedge issue for Latinos in the United\par
States, Latinos, Hispanics, are more conservative on abortion\par
than the average American.\par
But Latinos are also more likely to vote for Democrats.\par
So for many years, there have been Republicans\par
who felt that one way to get more of the Latino vote\par
would be to make the abortion issue more salient to them.\par
Before we get to Latinos, I just want to summarize the pattern\par
that we see so far.\par
This shows the difference between Democrats\par
and Republicans.\par
I'm going to frame this another way now.\par
I'm going to predict your party identification, whether you\par
support the Democrats or Republicans,\par
using as a predictor your attitude towards abortion.\par
I'm going to see how that varies over time.\par
The graph on the left is pretty much\par
a repeat of what we saw before.\par
It's the difference between Republicans and Democrats\par
in their support for abortion.\par
It started out around zero, but in recent years\par
Republicans have been much more pro-life than Democrats.\par
The graph on the right shows pretty much the same pattern,\par
but expressed as regression coefficients, so\par
a predictive model.\par
We're predicting party identification.\par
We're predicting whether you're Republican given your abortion\par
attitude.\par
And again, in recent years, your attitude on abortion\par
has become a very strong predictor of how you will vote.\par
This was for everybody.\par
Now I'm going to break it down by ethnic group,\par
and the results you're going to see are stunning.\par
This graph shows the coefficient for abortion,\par
how effective is attitude on abortion\par
at predicting your party identification among whites,\par
blacks, Hispanics, and others?\par
Among blacks and Hispanics, the coefficient is close to zero.\par
All the change that's occurred since 1992\par
has been among whites and others.\par
It seems it will be difficult to convince Hispanics\par
to vote for Republicans based on their abortion attitudes, given\par
that almost all of the partisan polarization of abortion\par
is occurring among whites and others,\par
not among blacks and Hispanics.\par
Now where did Bayesian analysis come into this?\par
Again, there are no formulas here,\par
no numbers, no Greek letters.\par
Underlying this, though, is quite a bit of modeling.\par
This is not a graph of raw data.\par
If we were to just take the raw data,\par
or simply fit a separate regression\par
model for each ethnic group in each year,\par
the graph would look much noisier.\par
The sample sizes in any given year from the survey\par
are pretty small.\par
So we fit a hierarchical model in order\par
to smooth the coefficients for all these groups.\par
The underlying model states that we\par
expect the coefficients to not be so variable,\par
and the variability that we do see in this graph\par
represents what's pretty much enforced upon us by the data.\par
So we can't really just look at the raw data.\par
We need to do quite a bit of modeling to see this pattern.\par
We can go further now.\par
As you can see, the biggest changes\par
in political polarization on abortion\par
are occurring among whites.\par
Also among others, but they represent a very small fraction\par
of the population, so we can focus on the whites here.\par
I'm going to take this white group\par
and break them up in two different ways.\par
The graph on the left shows polarization\par
on abortion, that is, the coefficient of abortion\par
predicting partisanship among four groups of whites,\par
low income, medium income, middle income, and high income.\par
The graph on the right shows the predictive power\par
of abortion attitude on partisanship among whites\par
of four education levels, low, medium, high, and highest.\par
It's clear that the political polarization of abortion\par
is concentrated on upper income, more well-educated whites.\par
Blacks and Hispanics do not show such polarization,\par
and lower income, less educated whites\par
don't see the polarization either.\par
This is a pattern we'd seen in other analyses of polling data.\par
Political polarization in America\par
is concentrated among middle and upper income whites.\par
We read a lot about political polarization in the newspaper,\par
perhaps because most newspaper reporters are themselves\par
middle- to upper income whites.\par
By drilling down into the data, being\par
willing to fit a model that's flexible,\par
a model that's non-linear, a model with different patterns\par
for different ethnic groups and different demographic\par
categories, we're able to learn so much.\par
And to me, that's what I see as the power of Bayesian data\par
analysis, that we're able to fit complex models,\par
learn about structure and data that we didn't even\par
know that we were looking for.\par
I'll conclude with another example\par
in which we can drill down using Bayesian methods to learn more\par
from data.\par
And it starts with a paper that was published\par
a couple years ago, Influence of Valentine's Day and Halloween\par
on Birth Timing.\par
A couple of researchers took public data,\par
the number of babies born every day in the United\par
States over a 20-year period, and found\par
a surprising and interesting pattern which\par
they showed in these graphs.\par
Let's look at the graph on the left.\par
The graph shows natural births, cesarean births,\par
and induced births during this 15-day period.\par
As you can see, there's a peak on Valentine's Day.\par
More babies are born on Valentine's Day\par
than on any of the days in the week before or the week after.\par
The researchers then did a similar analysis\par
looking at Halloween.\par
Look at the graph of the right.\par
This shows Halloween and the week before and the week after,\par
and there's a dip on Halloween.\par
More babies born on Valentine's Day,\par
fewer babies born on Halloween.\par
The cause of this is not mysterious.\par
There's a discretionary element in births.\par
Many births are induced, are scheduled,\par
and it's quite reasonable to suppose that the doctors\par
and patients were more likely to schedule\par
such births on Valentine's Day than the day before and after,\par
and perhaps less likely to schedule on Halloween.\par
So this is fine.\par
Valentine's Day and Halloween are just two days, though.\par
We wanted to understand the whole pattern.\par
So how are we going to do this?\par
We could start by graphing the data.\par
Here's a graph of the raw number of babies\par
born each day of the year, all 366 days from January 1\par
to December 31.\par
If you look carefully, you can see Valentine's Day\par
and Halloween there.\par
It's hard to know how to interpret it, though.\par
There's a lot of variation.\par
So there's a few obvious things.\par
Fewer people born on New Year's, on July 4, on Christmas.\par
There's patterns over time.\par
More babies are born in the late summer.\par
Fewer babies are born in the winter and spring.\par
There's also this funny wiggly pattern.\par
How do we understand that?\par
The wiggly pattern's sort of interesting.\par
More babies are born during the week than on the weekends.\par
The hospitals are less staffed on the weekends,\par
and they schedule more births Monday through Friday.\par
They schedule fewer births to the extent\par
they can be scheduled on Saturday and Sunday.\par
But this is not a graph of day of the week,\par
it's a graph of date of the year.\par
So why would you see a weekly pattern?\par
The reason is that the 20 years of these data\par
are not a full cycle.\par
That is, in any given day, date of the year like March 14\par
or April 3 or whatever, it's not necessarily\par
going to have equal numbers of weekdays and weekends.\par
There are 365 or 366 days in a year,\par
there's seven days in a week.\par
Seven does not divide evenly into 365 or 366.\par
So day of the week effects are actually\par
appearing in this indirect way in the date of the year.\par
That suggests that we shouldn't simply look at the raw data.\par
We need to fit a statistical model, a time series\par
decomposition.\par
We need to pull out the different effects.\par
What are the different effects?\par
There's time of year effects.\par
Certain times of year are more likely to have babies\par
than other times of year.\par
There's day of the week effects.\par
There's long-term effects.\par
During the 20-year period, there are\par
some years when more babies are born than others.\par
And finally, there are effects of special days,\par
and we want to pull out all of those effects.\par
If we're interested in the effects on special days\par
such as January 1, July 4, even Valentine's Day and Halloween,\par
we can best understand these with reference\par
to other patterns in the data.\par
I want to pull out the day of the week effects\par
and the day of year effects in order to better understand\par
the pattern of individual days.\par
And we do this by fitting a Bayesian model.\par
We fit an additive model in which\par
the number of babies born each year\par
is a sum of several factors, including long-term time\par
trends shown in the upper left graph,\par
day of week effects shown in the lower left graph, time\par
of year effects shown in the upper right,\par
and finally, special days, which are shown in the lower right.\par
And look at the resolution we get.\par
By fitting more model to the data,\par
we're able to pull out the patterns of the special days\par
much more clearly.\par
So I love looking at raw data.\par
I love exploratory analysis.\par
I do that all the time.\par
But one of the roles of exploratory analysis\par
is to see patterns which we then model.\par
You don't stop at the exploration.\par
I don't stop and say, hey, that graph zigged and zagged.\par
It jumped around.\par
There must be day of the week effects.\par
I don't stop there and complain.\par
I say, there must be day of the week effects.\par
I'm going to model the day of the week effects.\par
So we fit a Bayesian model to estimate all these things.\par
And then as a result, we can decompose the data\par
and pull out the effects we're particularly interested in,\par
which are the special days, in this case.\par
And of course, one could decompose the data further.\par
One could do more.\par
The analysis we do is not the last word.\par
It's just something that we did so far.\par
Bayesian methods were useful here because, again, our model\par
is complicated.\par
It had many, many parameters.\par
Bayesian inference allowed us to regularize our estimates.\par
It allowed us to get more stable parameters,\par
and it allowed us to understand and summarize\par
our posterior uncertainty.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 