{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Now I'm going to demonstrate some Bayesian modeling\par
in practice.\par
For the rest of this lecture, you're\par
going to see no formulas, no equations,\par
not even any numbers.\par
I'm going to show you a lot of results,\par
and I'm going to tell you why we needed\par
to use Bayesian inference without giving you\par
all the details in order to get a sense of how\par
we use these methods to solve real problems.\par
I'm going to start with a survey that\par
was done in the last month of the 2012 presidential election,\par
a survey in which respondents were asked whether they\par
supported Barack Obama or Mitt Romney\par
or any other candidate for president.\par
This was a special kind of survey.\par
The survey was done in people's living rooms,\par
but the survey interviewers didn't have\par
to go into their living rooms.\par
Why is this?\par
The survey was conducted on the Microsoft Xbox video game\par
platform.\par
Players on the Xbox had the opportunity to vote in a poll.\par
They were prompted by Microsoft every few days\par
to have the opportunity to vote to cast their opinion.\par
The resulting poll was not a random sample of Americans.\par
It was some non-random sample of people\par
who were on the Xbox at certain times\par
and felt like answering these questions.\par
But we were able to use these data to estimate\par
public opinion, and in some ways,\par
we were able to learn more from our Xbox poll\par
than from conventional surveys.\par
So what happened?\par
This graph shows support for Obama in blue, Romney in red,\par
and other or no opinion in white,\par
among Xbox respondents during the month\par
and a half before the 2012 election.\par
Obama and Romney start out in the same place,\par
then Obama pulls into the lead, then they're tied again,\par
then Romney pulls into the lead.\par
Romney stays ahead, and by the election,\par
Romney is ahead by a couple points.\par
So the Xbox survey worked.\par
It correctly predicted that Romney\par
was going to win the election.\par
But wait a second.\par
Romney didn't win the election, actually.\par
The Xbox survey failed in this case.\par
What happened?\par
The Xbox respondents are not representative\par
of the general population.\par
They had too many Romney voters.\par
We need to do something about that.\par
While you wouldn't know ahead of time that there are too\par
many Romney voters in the sample,\par
the whole purpose of the service to find out how many people\par
support Obama and Romney.\par
But we know that the Xbox population\par
doesn't match the general population in other ways.\par
We have a lot of data on these respondents.\par
We have their age, we have their sex,\par
we have what state they live in, we have their education levels.\par
We can adjust for these things.\par
We can fit a statistical model estimating\par
the support for Obama and Romney in the general population,\par
correcting for the fact that the sample is not\par
the same as the population.\par
We fit a regression model to make this predictions.\par
Having done this, we can estimate\par
the underlying distribution of Obama and Romney voters\par
in the general population of voters.\par
And here's what we find.\par
After adjusting for demographics,\par
this graph shows the support for Obama over time.\par
Obama started out in the lead.\par
Then, for a brief period, Romney was in the lead.\par
Romney caught up.\par
The line goes below 50%, meaning Romney was ahead.\par
And then at the end, Obama pulled into the lead\par
and he won.\par
And the dotted line shows what happened\par
in the actual election.\par
In this graph the solid lines show support for Obama\par
among the people who supported one candidate or another\par
over time, as estimated from our adjusted survey data,\par
and the gray shows uncertainty bounds.\par
Now what do we get out of this graph beyond what one might\par
get out of a regular poll?\par
Probably the big advantage of the Xbox survey here,\par
compared to what you would usually read in the newspaper,\par
is we have data from every day.\par
So each dot in this graph shows the results\par
from survey respondents in that particular day.\par
We can see fine structure in the data in public opinion\par
that we wouldn't be able to see from usual polls.\par
And usually, when you hear about polls in the newspapers\par
or online, you get moving averages over several days.\par
You get more of a blurry picture.\par
So that's one thing.\par
But now, having the ability to see fine structure,\par
let's try to use it.\par
As you see, Obama was well ahead of Romney,\par
and then something seemed to happen\par
on that dotted vertical line on October 3,\par
and then Romney did better.\par
What happened on October 3?\par
The three dotted vertical lines in this graph\par
are the three presidential debates.\par
In the first debate on October 3, Romney did very well.\par
Obama didn't look so good.\par
And the pundits agreed, on the left and on the right.\par
Karl Rove described Mr. Romney's bounce as significant.\par
Nate Silver of The New York Times\par
said, "Mr. Romney has not only improved his own standing,\par
but has also taken voters away from Mr. Obama's column."\par
Now is this actually true?\par
In this graph, we saw support for Obama in the Xbox survey\par
after adjusting for demographics,\par
after adjusting for age, sex, education,\par
and some other variables.\par
But we can do more.\par
We also have survey data from the Xbox respondents\par
of their party identification, whether they consider\par
themselves Democrat, Republican, or independent,\par
as well as who they voted for the previous election.\par
These are questions that we asked people\par
at the very beginning of the survey period\par
when they joined the poll.\par
And so we can adjust for these variables\par
in order to match to a constant population of potential voters.\par
And now I'm going to show you what\par
happened after we adjust not only for demographics, but also\par
for partisanship.\par
In this graph, the light line shows our estimated support\par
for Obama every day just based on adjusting for demographics.\par
The solid line, the black line, shows what we really believe,\par
which is after adjusting for demographics and partisanship.\par
We believe that the solid line represents the true underlying\par
opinion more accurately.\par
What's the difference between the two lines?\par
The difference comes to non-response.\par
Look at what's happening in the first part of the time series\par
from September 24 to October 3.\par
There the light line is heavier than the dark line.\par
What that means is that Xbox respondents, even\par
after controlling for demographics,\par
had too many Democrats.\par
Once we adjusted for partisanship\par
and adjusted for the fact that our sample was\par
over representing Democrats, the line went down.\par
Obama's support was not a strong as it seemed.\par
Later on during the time series, in mid-October, the light line\par
is below the dark line.\par
What that means is that our survey was\par
over representing Republicans.\par
Why was this happening?\par
Think about the election campaign.\par
In late September, Obama was well ahead.\par
He was cruising to reelection.\par
Imagine you're filling out the Xbox poll at this point\par
and you're a Democrat.\par
You might say, sure, let me play this game.\par
This will be fun.\par
Let's see who's going to win.\par
I'm going to vote for Obama.\par
If you're a Republican, you might\par
feel like, I'm don't want to do this.\par
I'm sick of the election already.\par
So you get an over turnout among Democrats in this poll.\par
Later on, Romney's doing really well.\par
He's leading in the polls.\par
He did so well in the debate.\par
And now it's time to play the Xbox game,\par
and you're a Democrat, and you're like,\par
I don't feel like doing this.\par
Republicans, like, yeah, let's do it.\par
I'm really psyched about Romney.\par
The survey response itself is not random,\par
and by adjusting for partisanship,\par
we can get a more accurate picture of what's actually\par
happening in the polls, what's actually happening\par
among the voters, I should say.\par
The actual underlying opinion among voters\par
is much more stable than what you\par
would see in surveys because of differential\par
non-response between Democrats and Republicans.\par
So we learned something from this Xbox poll\par
that we were not able to learn some conventional surveys.\par
Because the Xbox poll was what's called a panel survey, meaning\par
we sampled people repeatedly, we're\par
able to see that a lot of what appeared\par
to be changes in public opinion were actually\par
just changes in differential non-response rates.\par
For our next example, I'm going to share a study\par
we did about where political partisanship comes from,\par
and how it changes as you get older.\par
I'm going to start with a story of the George W. Bush\par
Democrat and the Jimmy Carter Republican.\par
A few years ago, I had a conversation with someone\par
about my age who described himself\par
as a Jimmy Carter Republican.\par
So I said, what do you mean?\par
What's a Jimmy Carter Republican?\par
You mean you like President Carter\par
because he was tough on the Russians,\par
he deregulated industries, you think\par
he was truly a Republican?\par
And my friend said, no.\par
Jimmy Carter made me a Republican.\par
Jimmy Carter, Democratic president,\par
was so unpopular that this man, who was in his teens\par
at the time, decided that the Democrats were not for him.\par
A few years later, we had an entire generation\par
of George W. Bush Democrats, young people who\par
vote for Obama after experiencing\par
eight years of George W. Bush and deciding\par
that the Democrats were going to serve their interests\par
a little bit better.\par
This graph shows the pattern in more detail.\par
This is from a large survey conducted in 2008.\par
It was big enough that we could actually\par
estimate public opinion by single year of age.\par
I'm showing support for the Republican candidate\par
for president as a function of age.\par
As we said before, the youngest voters\par
were much more likely to support Barack Obama\par
and oppose the Republicans.\par
As we get older, though, we see an interesting nonlinear\par
pattern responding to different generations\par
of presidential voters.\par
George W. Bush Democrats, Jimmy Carter Republicans,\par
Ronald Reagan Republicans, John F. Kennedy Democrats,\par
all the way back to the New Deal period.\par
I'm going to show you this graph again along with similar graphs\par
from polls in other years.\par
The plot on the left shows public opinion support\par
for Republicans as a function of age in 2008.\par
The middle graph shows four lines,\par
support for Republicans in 2002, 2004, 2008, and 2012,\par
each as a function of age.\par
And as you can see, this graph looks like a mess.\par
If you take this middle graph, all you can really say\par
is there's not very clear relationship between age\par
and how you vote.\par
But now we're going to try something.\par
We're going to take the line from 2000\par
and shift it over by 12 years.\par
We're going to take the line for 2004\par
and shift it by eight years.\par
We're going to take the line for 2008\par
and shift it by four years, and the line for 2012\par
and shift it by zero years.\par
Thus, we're lining up the four curves now not\par
as a function of your age, but as a function\par
of the year you were born.\par
And that's the graph on the right.\par
And this is pretty amazing.\par
There are clear generational patterns.\par
From election to election, there are\par
patterns of people born in different decades who\par
are strongly Democratic, then a strong Republican era, e then\par
there's another era where people born in this period\par
were more likely to support Democrats\par
than Republican and so forth.\par
There's an alternation, a gradual alternation\par
that's happening not over time, but over birth year.\par
And these vote patterns continue over your life.\par
How people vote based on their age\par
is very similar in 2000, 2004, 2008, and 2012.\par
And so that implies that how you vote is, to a large part,\par
determined by things that happen to you when\par
you're relatively young.\par
And we decided we would fit a statistical model\par
to these data.\par
In the model we fit, your political attitudes\par
are a sum of things that happened to you in the past.\par
And we quantified that based on presidential approval.\par
We have data going back to the 1940s\par
on the approval of the presidents,\par
and our model is that when there's a Democratic president\par
and he's popular, that makes your generation more\par
likely to support Democrats, not just then, but in future years\par
as well, future elections as well.\par
Similarly, if there's a popular Republican president\par
like Dwight Eisenhower or Ronald Reagan,\par
that will cause you to support Republicans later on in life.\par
Conversely, an unpopular Democrat\par
such as Jimmy Carter or an unpopular Republican\par
such as George W. Bush will cause\par
you to like that party less.\par
So we fit a model in which there's\par
a coefficient for each year of age.\par
In each year of age, presidential popularity\par
has an effect on your future voting.\par
Here's the result from our model.\par
This graph shows the importance, the weight\par
of presidential popularity on your future voting\par
as a function of your age.\par
These are estimates and uncertainty bounds\par
based on the Bayesian model that we fit.\par
We estimate that the most important years in your life,\par
in terms of affecting future voting,\par
are between the ages of 15 and 30.\par
After that, as you get older, the popularity of the president\par
becomes less of a factor in your future voting, which\par
makes sense.\par
You get more set in your ways.\par
We estimated this graph by fitting data\par
to decades of poll data and integrating that\par
with presidential approval.\par
This was a Bayesian model.\par
We used Bayesiam methods because their model had\par
a large number of parameters.\par
This graph alone shows parameters\par
for each year of age, but we also\par
have parameters for chronological years.\par
And we also have to include various demographic corrections\par
in our models, similar demographic corrections\par
to the corrections that we did in our earlier Xbox study.\par
We have a model with a large number of parameters\par
and somewhat sparse data.\par
And that's where Bayesian modeling\par
becomes particularly useful.\par
Now let me speak a bit more generically about what we did.\par
In the two previous examples, we had survey data,\par
sample data that did not completely\par
match the population.\par
In the first example, there's a very bad mismatch\par
between sample and population, and we\par
needed to adjust for a lot of predictors\par
in order to make reasonable statements\par
about the general population of voters.\par
In the second example, the sample\par
was somewhat representative, but we\par
needed to get estimates for every year of age.\par
In that case, our data were sparse\par
and we needed to do statistical modeling in order\par
to fit a coherent model to the data\par
from different ages and different years.\par
In both of these cases we used Bayesian methods\par
in order to capture the uncertainty\par
and regularize our predictions.\par
A simple statistical estimate, a simple non-Bayesian estimate\par
would be too noisy.\par
A simple non-Bayesian estimate wouldn't\par
allow us to include all the predictors\par
that we needed to include in order\par
to do the adjustments that were necessary.\par
So in this case, we used prior information,\par
and I'm not going into the details here,\par
but we used prior information to control the estimates,\par
to keep them more stable, more numerically stable,\par
which allowed us to include more information\par
and get more accurate summaries of the underlying population\par
that we're interested in.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 