{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 OK, so let's jump into the first segment of this module in which\par
we're going to be talking about which data to collect-- how\par
to build models to actually apply Bayesian statistics\par
to business problems.\par
So the best way to learn those things is through examples.\par
That's why I have selected different case studies in which\par
I'm going to be using the data from those case studies\par
to build different models with different purposes.\par
So let's start today talking about a case example, which\par
is going to be.\par
Let's think about a business that,\par
for example, sells a national brand-- think of it Coca Cola.\par
You could think also of Starbucks and espresso,\par
many other brands.\par
But let's think about Coca Cola just\par
for the sake of this example.\par
Let's say you distribute Coca Cola.\par
You sell Coca Cola to customers through multiple retailers\par
that are located in different markets.\par
And the manager in charge of those markets, what\par
she observes generally is going to be sales--\par
is going to be what the prices are\par
set because she sets prices.\par
Right?\par
And she's going to observe other marketing activities that\par
are targeted to customers in those markets.\par
So what does the data look like?\par
What does the data that this manager goes to her computer,\par
and she finds something like that?\par
What I put here is that we have multiple stores.\par
So the first observations go to store 1.\par
Then, the second set of observations goes to 2.\par
Then it will be going down like store 3,\par
store 4, multiple stores.\par
And for each store, have a weekly metric\par
of how much were the sales of that particular category, say,\par
how much was sold in Coca Cola products.\par
What was the average price of the Coca Cola products?\par
And something that I call here display.\par
Display is something that is a very general marketing\par
term, which in this case represents\par
what is the percentage of Coca Cola products that where\par
on display in the retailer or supermarket?\par
When you go to the supermarket, sometimes some products\par
are more displayed than others.\par
This is a metric for that.\par
Generally, the higher the display,\par
the more the customer is going to observe the Coca Cola brand,\par
and then the more likely they will buy it.\par
So this is the manager of these particular set of markets\par
with all these data at hand, why would it\par
be useful for this person to use Bayesian statistics to do\par
something better in her business?\par
In other words, what is the goal of modeling?\par
Why are we going to put a model there estimating some data?\par
So what is it that the manager really want to know?\par
Well, the manager really wants to know a few things.\par
First of all, if I change the prices,\par
how does the manager respond to that?\par
She can also be interested in, oh, this\par
display that I just displayed.\par
Is it really worth it to spend effort and money\par
by changing the display?\par
Is it going to affect sales really?\par
Or not only that, but she is going\par
to actually want to predict what is going to be future sales.\par
For stock purposes, for example, she\par
would be interested in knowing how much sales she\par
could expect in the future.\par
And very importantly, actually, she\par
could say, well, if I increase or decrease prices by 10%,\par
how are my sales going to change?\par
All these questions can be answered\par
by just building a model for sales data\par
with the other variables that we have in our data set.\par
So in essence, when we model something,\par
specifically in the examples I'm going\par
to be using in all these segments,\par
there are generally two goals.\par
They might be more in other applications.\par
But generally, in marketing, or in business,\par
we have two goals of the modeling.\par
The modeling is there so we understand customers' behavior.\par
What do we mean by customer behavior?\par
I mean how do customers respond to certain actions, actions\par
such as price or display.\par
You could be thinking about also actions\par
that such as what if I run this advertising campaign?\par
How are my sales going to be depending on that?\par
So various understanding of how customers behave,\par
and then using that information then, we\par
can use to predict future outcomes.\par
So let's see how we can model the data we have at hand,\par
so we're going to be able to answer\par
those questions in the future.\par
So let's think about the data we had.\par
I just showed you a table.\par
By the way, I have to disclaim that the sales I'm going\par
to show you now in all of these examples are not exactly\par
the sales of the company who provided me with the data\par
because I cannot release this information.\par
I'm going to be using the sales I\par
got with some factor of a number like multiplied\par
by 7, or 13, or 12.\par
So you know exactly where this is coming from.\par
That's going to be through all the examples.\par
But anyway, let's think about the aspects\par
of the data that are going to be helping us\par
on developing the model.\par
So what do we have in the data?\par
What is the main variable of interest in this problem?\par
Sales.\par
This is what generally in econometrics and statistics\par
is called the dependent variable.\par
This is the variable that is going to be the outcome of it,\par
right?\par
So the manager is interested in knowing what's\par
going to happen to sales.\par
Now, very important, especially when\par
we start building more complex models as this course evolves,\par
the very important aspect of the data\par
is what is the unit of analysis?\par
Meaning, do you have multiple people?\par
Do have multiple markets?\par
Do you have things over time?\par
What is the unit in which it's going to be repeated?\par
The observations are repeated.\par
So in this particular case, I said\par
that we have multiple stores that\par
were observed over different periods of time, right?\par
We have weekly store 11 data.\par
This is what we'll see later.\par
The week is going to be what we call t.\par
The store is going to be what we call i\par
whenever I go to the notation.\par
But this is not that relevant how we call it.\par
The important thing is here knowing\par
that we have two dimensions of observation--\par
across the stores and over time.\par
So this is two things about the main variable.\par
Now, what else do we know?\par
In this case, we know price--\par
what was the average price of the product being sold.\par
And we also know the level of display\par
which we can think about it as a measure of marketing activity\par
within the store.\par
Right?\par
So now let's think, OK, I know my goal.\par
My goal was A: to understand customers' behavior depending\par
on these variables here.\par
My second goal was actually being able to predict sales.\par
So let's think about how to build a model that\par
is going to be solved using Bayesian statistics that\par
is going to actually help us get an answer to those questions.\par
So there we go.\par
Let's think about the model building.\par
And let's think about first of all what you have already\par
covered in the previous module with Andrew Gelman\par
and what actually I revisited at the beginning\par
of the introduction.\par
How do we estimate in Bayesian statistics?\par
Bayesian statistics are pretty much what\par
the goal-- not the goal, maybe, but the core of it\par
is going to be-- and we know that the probability\par
of a parameter given some data is\par
proportional to the probability of that data given\par
the parameter times the probability of that parameter.\par
Right?\par
This is an equation that is going\par
to happen many, many times during this course.\par
And definitely all of you will be familiar by now.\par
So let's think about how to translate these\par
into the model for the data that I just described.\par
Well, as we discussed before, theta here, it's our unknown.\par
This is going to be the quantity we don't know about.\par
It could be parameters in the model, unobservable, things\par
that we don't know.\par
The data is very clear.\par
The data that we have are sales.\par
We know that.\par
Now, just to refresh a little bit the concepts,\par
how do we call that?\par
That was the posterior, correct?\par
Why?\par
Because it's the probability of the parameter given\par
the information we have that was posted here.\par
Then let's go here.\par
That was the probability of the parameter.\par
This is the prior, right?\par
This is going to be some probability distribution\par
that we're going to assume, say normal, say uniform, say gamma.\par
We're going to assume some probability distribution\par
for this parameter.\par
And then we have this bunch in the middle.\par
What does it mean the probability of the data given\par
the parameter?\par
When we build models, what this is called--\par
this is the likelihood function.\par
And I'll be talking about likelihood\par
a lot for these different case studies\par
that we're going to investigate.\par
So what is the likelihood?\par
In different words, what is the probability of getting\par
the sales I'm getting given the prices, and advertising,\par
and all other parameters in the model.\par
So on model building, what does it mean to build a model?\par
Building a model means I'm going to make assumptions about how\par
the likelihood is, which is what is going\par
to be the relationship between sales, price,\par
and display in all these parameters.\par
I'm going to make an assumptions about what is the prior.\par
And then once I have these two elements,\par
Bayesian statistics is going to give me the answer to these.\par
So my estimation of Bayesian inference\par
is going to tell me what is the probability of all\par
this parameters, all the unknowns, given\par
the data you observe?\par
I don't need to worry about this quantity right now, why?\par
Because the moment I have these, and I have that,\par
then this part of the equation just follows.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 