{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So good.\par
Now that we have the bits that we are interested on,\par
all the bits we need for estimate this model innovation\par
paradigm, so let's think about how to build these pieces.\par
So we can compute--\par
actually, we can estimate the model.\par
Again, these pieces where the ones I'm interested now are I'm\par
going to be building the likelihood\par
and then we'll be discussing later\par
on what will be the good priors for this model.\par
So let's think about the likelihood\par
function for a second.\par
What am I wanting to do?\par
What I want to figure out is what\par
would be the probability of the data, which is sales, given\par
the parameters in the model?\par
Well, so let's just start thinking about that.\par
Which unit of preservation do I have?\par
I had different stores in different weeks.\par
So let's just start by thinking--\par
let's define for i, I'm going to use i\par
for the store, different store, and I'm\par
going to use t for different week.\par
So let's think about this.\par
What is y? y is the dependant variable.\par
So have to put that, OK.\par
Sales of a particular store in a particular week--\par
how do I build the model for sales?\par
What are my assumptions behind how sales are related\par
with the data we also have?\par
Well, so sales are going to be definitely\par
a function, a relationship, with the price that each store is\par
charging each week.\par
We saw that we have to have variation in price\par
across the stores across time.\par
Also, it's going to be a function of how much\par
display of that particular brand, that's it,\par
or how much kind of marketing activity.\par
Let's leave it vague for now.\par
So what I'm going to assume in this particular model\par
is that sales are a linear relationship of price, display,\par
and maybe other things that I don't observe.\par
How do I express that in an equation?\par
Well, I'm saying sales, i t, are going to be some let's say base\par
level of sales.\par
I'll go to that in a second.\par
And then sales are going to respond to how price vary.\par
So they're going to respond to some parameter beta i.\par
What does beta i represent here?\par
It means if price increases by $1,\par
then sales are going to increase by beta 1.\par
But how is it possible that you're\par
telling me that when price increase, sales also increase?\par
We know from economics is generally the other way around.\par
Well, that's why this model most likely\par
is going to give us a parameter beta that is negative.\par
So the answer parameter beta is going\par
to be something about, I don't know, minus 1,\par
minus 2, something like that--\par
means that when I increase prices by $1,\par
sales will decrease by $2.\par
That would be the way to understand this equation.\par
Now, not only price affects sales, but also display\par
affects sales, and we're going to assume\par
another linear relationship here, with another parameter.\par
Again, this beta 1 and beta 2, what they capture\par
is that this relationship between increases and decreases\par
of prices and sales and display and sales, respectively.\par
Now, I started saying that I was going to put a beta 0.\par
Why do I need beta 0?\par
This is basically for those of you\par
who haven't done any modeling before,\par
that's important to think about.\par
If I'm assuming this relationship,\par
imagine what sales would be if price is set to 0\par
and say display is set to 0.\par
Well, sales would be--\par
this part is 0, gone; this part is 0, gone.\par
Sales would still be something.\par
That's why I need to put here, which is generally\par
called the constant, some parameter beta 0.\par
It's going to capture what sales would\par
be in the absence of any other of the covariance.\par
So for now, what I'm saying is that sales\par
follows this relationship.\par
Now, are you telling me that sales over time\par
are exactly always this same relationship with prices\par
and display?\par
Well, we know that sales move around week after week.\par
So what do we need to add here is some sort of uncertainty\par
about sales, which we generally put in the terms of an error\par
term--\par
you could use different letters for that;\par
I'm going to just call it error because we're not\par
going to worry too much about it today--\par
error term that happens in a particular week\par
in a particular store.\par
So many of you might have seen this before.\par
Some of you who have already covered some linear regression\par
analysis, this is exactly it.\par
Now, I want to estimate this innovation paradigm\par
because over the course of the segments,\par
we're going to see the beauty of that\par
and how that actually help managers make better decisions.\par
The idea here is that if this is indeed\par
what is going on about sales, how\par
do I translate this equation in my goal\par
which is here, which is a probability of data given\par
parameters?\par
Remember, that was my likelihood.\par
I want to write this equation as a probability.\par
Well, a way to do that which is very common in statistics would\par
be, well, if I assume that the error term which I don't\par
observe follows some normal distribution,\par
I can rewrite this equation exactly as follows.\par
I can say, well, sales in a particular store\par
in a particular week follow a normal distribution that\par
have mean of what?\par
What is the mean of this particular distribution?\par
It will be exactly all this expression here,\par
which could be the base sales, the price and display,\par
the relationship between them, which for now I'm\par
going to call it x beta.\par
I'm going to expand that in a second\par
for those who haven't seen any vectoral notation.\par
And then I have a normal distribution, I have the mean,\par
and now I need the variance.\par
I'm going to assume that this error term has\par
a variance sigma squared.\par
So what did I just do?\par
What I did is assuming what is the probability of the data\par
given the parameters.\par
So in this case, what would be the parameters?\par
Back to our example here.\par
Well, the parameters, which we're\par
going to call theta all the time, my theta here going\par
to be--\par
I have the beta 0.\par
I also have the beta 1 and the beta 2,\par
and I also have the variance of this error, which\par
is sigma square.\par
So now translating our problem to the Bayesian specification\par
of the model, what are the parameters?\par
We have four parameters in the model, which\par
are beta 0, beta 1, beta 2, which I put here\par
in notation as beta hat--\par
not hat, really beta vector--\par
and then the sigma squared, which\par
is an assumption from my side, which\par
is going to be the distribution of these error terms.\par
So far, what do we have?\par
We have exactly this.\par
This part of the equation is covered.\par
Why?\par
Because we know exactly what is the probability\par
of the data given the parameters.\par
You give me the parameters, which are beta,\par
x is observed because it's data that I\par
observe each week, each time.\par
I know those data is price and display.\par
You give me the parameters and I can tell you\par
exactly what is the probability of [INAUDIBLE].\par
Now, the next thing I need to do is\par
I need to figure out what my prior is going to be.\par
Now, prior is I was going to say trickier easy thing generally\par
in this type of business problems.\par
Why?\par
Because what you saw with Andrew in the previous module\par
was that the idea of the prior, the prior's\par
going to add to the model every previous information\par
we have before.\par
And actually, the choice of the prior\par
is quite important because it's going\par
to reflect how much you knew from it, and most of the time,\par
it's going to change the outcome.\par
You change the prior, and the posteriors\par
are not going to be the same.\par
In marketing, and in business problems in general,\par
the beauty of the prior is that we're\par
going to have a lot of data to estimate these models.\par
Nowadays we have in this example,\par
for example, we can easily collect data over a year\par
or two years of time--\par
say these like are more than 100 weeks.\par
We have multiple stores, which would be,\par
let's say you have 30 stores.\par
So what you will have is a lot of data to estimate this model.\par
What does it mean that you have a lot of data?\par
It means that the probability of the data given the parameter\par
has a lot of information in it.\par
Hence, the prior you have here doesn't weight so much\par
into the posterior because you have a lot of data,\par
and this is the beauty actually now\par
of the era of big data or analytics,\par
however you and I call it--\par
that is, that we have plenty and plenty of information\par
that if we plug into the models, now\par
we don't need a lot of information about the prior\par
because the data is going to help us.\par
The data pretty much is going to speak for themselves.\par
So in general, the approach I'm going to take in this module,\par
which I'm going to use across examples, is for the priors,\par
in all cases I'm going to be using what\par
is called an informative priors, in the sense that I'm going\par
to apply some distribution.\par
Let's say in this case, I could preferably\par
say that beta 0, beta 1, and beta 2--\par
I have no idea what this relationship could be.\par
I'm going to assume a prior, say, each of them\par
follows a normal distribution with mean 0\par
and variance 10, variance 100.\par
That doesn't matter really for me.\par
Why?\par
Because I'm going to have a lot of information\par
to understand what the likelihood is.\par
Hence, it's going to fit the posterior.\par
Then for sigma square, sigma square\par
represents the variance of the error term.\par
And we know that a variance can never be negative,\par
so that's why my prior is not going to be, for example,\par
normal in this case, because a normal distribution could\par
be negative.\par
But is going to do something, for example,\par
you could assume uniform--\par
0, 10.\par
You could assume a chi distribution,\par
you could assume a gamma distribution, inverse gamma\par
distribution.\par
So I won't go deep into the priors.\par
I will give you further resources later in the module\par
to actually learn more about that,\par
but for now what we're going to do is we're\par
going to keep ourselves thinking about the intuition\par
of the likelihood, which is generally\par
the most interesting part for modeling business decisions.\par
So this is our setup, probability of the data given\par
the parameters.\par
We know that we're going to have some uninformative\par
priors for the parameters, and now how do we do this?\par
How do we assume?\par
How do we compute the probability of the parameters\par
given the data?\par
Well, this is exactly why we're going\par
to use Bayesian statistics, because we don't have\par
to do that because this is exactly--\par
we know how this looks like.\par
Once I have set up p y given theta and p theta,\par
this expression is exactly proportional to that.\par
So what we just did, we just built a model\par
that we can estimate, which we will\par
estimate in the next segment.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 