{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 I'll now demonstrate these principles\par
in the context of several examples.\par
This graph, which went viral on the web a few years ago,\par
displays health care spending and life expectancy\par
in several countries.\par
The left axis shows health spending.\par
The right axis shows life expectancy.\par
And each line shows a country.\par
The widths of the line also convey information, which\par
I'm not going to get into here.\par
What really jumps out in this graph\par
is that red line at the top, the United States,\par
where health care spending is about twice as much\par
as it is in any of the other countries,\par
while life expectancy is right in the middle of the pack.\par
So remember-- graphs as comparisonss--\par
what's being compared here?\par
The US to everywhere else.\par
However, effective as this graph is\par
at making its political point, from a statistical standpoint,\par
we can do better.\par
So now I'm going to re-express these data as a scatterplot.\par
For every country, we're displaying\par
two numbers, health care spending and life expectancy.\par
So let's plot them that way.\par
Again, the US is in red.\par
Mexico is also in red.\par
It was in red in the original graphic, at the bottom.\par
Again, the US stands out.\par
We're spending about twice as much\par
as everybody else with similar life expectancy\par
as these other countries.\par
But we learn a lot more from the scatterplot.\par
In particular, when you take away the US,\par
you see a positive correlation between health care spending\par
and life expectancy.\par
In addition, we can easily identify\par
the individual countries.\par
We can see where Denmark is, we can see Japan with its highest\par
life expectancy, we can see the lower income countries\par
on the lower left that have slightly lower life expectancy,\par
and of course, less health care spending.\par
If we go back to the original graph,\par
we can't see that sort of detail.\par
We can't make those comparisons.\par
Yes, if you're careful, you can read off\par
the data in each country.\par
The data are all there.\par
You can go to the country names on the left side of the graph\par
and read off the numbers.\par
But there's no way to see a general pattern.\par
Yes, we see the US spends much more than other countries,\par
but beyond that, we can't really see the general trend\par
in the data.\par
Once we display it this way, we can\par
see the positive correlation in the countries\par
outside the US, which makes the US look special and different\par
in a slightly different way.\par
This is not to say that the original graph was\par
bad or useless.\par
The original graph was very attractive.\par
It very dramatically showed the difference.\par
There's something very striking about a red line that\par
actually goes outside the border of the graph.\par
And I don't criticize the people for making this graph.\par
What I think would be ideal is, if you have a graph like this\par
on the web that gathers people's attention,\par
you can click on that graph and get this graph,\par
which has more information.\par
And then maybe click again and get\par
to a spreadsheet with the data so people\par
can analyze it themselves.\par
For our next example, I'm going to focus\par
on how reexpression of data allows certain comparisons\par
to be made more apparent.\par
The example comes from market research.\par
My colleagues fit three different models\par
to four different data sets, and then they\par
made this graph to display the predictive performance\par
of the models in the different data sets.\par
And we can see, what does this allow us to do?\par
We can compare the three models on each data set.\par
So for each data set, we can see which model performed better.\par
And it looks like, in general, the blue model, the combined\par
model, had the highest fit.\par
It performed better.\par
Which sort of makes sense.\par
I don't actually know the details,\par
but it sounds like a combined model should do better\par
than others.\par
So this graph very effectively shows the comparison\par
within each group.\par
However, it doesn't allow us to compare the four different sets\par
very clearly.\par
I expressed this concern to my colleagues,\par
and they replotted the data.\par
The original graph is on the left\par
and the replot is on the right.\par
The graph on the left is my colleague's original plot\par
of their results.\par
On the right is their reexpression.\par
They also added a fifth data when doing this.\par
They were hoping that the reexpression was\par
what I was looking for, that I would be able to make\par
the comparisons that I wanted.\par
But actually, I have the same trouble\par
with the graph on the right as I do\par
with the one on the left, which is that I can make comparisons\par
within each of the models but it's very hard for me\par
to make comparisons between models.\par
I find that it's hard to get the big picture of where\par
the combined model is doing particularly well compared\par
to the search and baseline.\par
But this was interesting to me, because I\par
had explained my concerns to my colleagues,\par
and they made a new graph.\par
But it still wasn't what I was looking for,\par
which made me feel that I didn't have a good enough language\par
to express my concerns.\par
In any case, they redrew the data one more\par
time in a way that it turned out I liked a lot,\par
and that's the graph on the right.\par
So again, they're comparing three models, search, baseline,\par
and the combined model on five data sets.\par
The differences is, in this graph,\par
I can not only make the comparison for each data set,\par
I can also see the big picture.\par
I can see which sorts of data the search model\par
is doing particularly poorly in and which\par
data the baseline model is doing particularly poorly.\par
It gives me a bird's eye view.\par
Now, what's interesting to me is that's the same data.\par
It takes the same amount of space on the page.\par
And yet, the comparisons are much clearer.\par
Visualization is not just for raw data.\par
We can also use graphics and data visualization\par
tools to understand models that we fit.\par
And here's an example.\par
In the days leading up to the 2008 presidential election,\par
we did some computations, based on the latest polls\par
and election forecasts, to estimate the probability\par
that the election would be exactly tied.\par
Who cares about that?\par
Well, if the election is exactly tied in your state,\par
and if your state is necessary for an electoral college\par
coalition, then that means your vote is decisive.\par
That means it makes sense for you\par
to vote because your vote will personally\par
determine the outcome of the presidential election.\par
We were curious, what was the probability your vote would\par
determined the outcome of the election\par
and how that varied by state.\par
Which states had voters which had a higher\par
probability of being decisive?\par
And in which states did voters have a lower probability?\par
And this graph displays this information.\par
We try to make our graphs informative, clear,\par
and beautiful.\par
But there can be some trade-offs.\par
The more information you put on the graph, harder\par
it can be to read, at first.\par
So often, when you have a graph, you\par
need to spend some time explaining what's on it.\par
Once you understand what's there, it can be very readable.\par
We like to say that a picture plus 1,000 words\par
is more clear than two pictures or 2,000 words.\par
So now, let's get back to our graph of the election\par
probabilities.\par
We display each of the 50 states,\par
plus the District of Columbia, on this graph.\par
On the x-axis is the probability that your state is needed\par
for an electoral college win-- that is, the probability\par
that the national election will be so close that your state\par
would be decisive.\par
On the y-axis is the probability that your state\par
would be tied if it was decisive in the national election.\par
In the lower half of the graph is\par
DC, the District of Columbia.\par
In Washington DC, the probability\par
that your vote would be decisive is extremely low.\par
It's very unlikely that Washington DC would be tied.\par
The Democrats traditionally do very well\par
in presidential elections in DC.\par
Also, DC is a small district with only three\par
electoral votes.\par
So even if your vote was decisive in DC,\par
even in that unlikely event, it would be very unlikely\par
that Washington DC would be part of an electoral college\par
coalition.\par
Now, move to the far right of the graph.\par
You see California.\par
California is the largest state.\par
And so the probability of it being\par
necessary for an electoral college coalition\par
is fairly large in this forecast.\par
However, California was not a close state, similarly\par
with New York, Illinois, Texas.\par
These are large states, states which\par
could make a difference in a national election,\par
but for which the probability that your vote makes\par
a difference is very small, because they're not\par
predicted to be close.\par
Now, go to the top of the graph.\par
We have New Hampshire, New Mexico, Colorado, Virginia.\par
These are relatively small states,\par
but they're swing states.\par
It's more likely that the election\par
will be tied in these states.\par
Finally, look at the low down-sloping diagonal lines\par
on the graph.\par
They represent the probability that your vote is decisive.\par
It's what you get by multiplying the numbers on the x\par
and the y-axis, multiplying the probability that your vote is\par
decisive within a state times the probability\par
that your state is decisive.\par
By throwing those diagonal lines on the graph,\par
we can see that New Hampshire, New Mexico, Colorado, Virginia,\par
they're the states where the probability of your vote\par
being decisive is the highest, about 1 in 10 million.\par
And then as you go down the graph to the left,\par
you move to states where it's less and less likely\par
that your vote could make a difference.\par
So this is an example of how we can compare states\par
in two different dimensions and also introduced\par
this third dimension, which is the product, in a concise way.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 