{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So this is the example that I'm going\par
to use to illustrate how a dashboard can be used\par
for both exploratory analysis-- mainly\par
exploratory analysis in this example,\par
but also communicating a narrative.\par
This is a huge table full of numbers.\par
It's almost impossible to navigate or to detect\par
any interesting relationship.\par
What we're looking at here are various measures\par
of attributes of golf players.\par
These are all golf players that have played\par
on various PGA and other tours.\par
They span from the year 2004.\par
This is the first entry-- the golf player Fred Funk, 2004.\par
And you can see across the top, we\par
have various different categories\par
of how good he is at different things.\par
So for instance, this column here is called Drive Percent.\par
Its value is 77.2.\par
That means that in 2004, this golfer, Fred Funk,\par
he drove the golf ball off the tee-- 77% of the time\par
he would hit the fairway, and the other percent of the time,\par
he would miss the fairway.\par
We have other variables in this data set.\par
For instance, this cell here, the value is 65.5%.\par
That's GIR, which stands for Greens In Regulation, which\par
means that on a par four, for instance, he\par
would have got to the par four's green in two shots\par
65% of the time.\par
He would have got to a par five's green in three shots\par
65% of the time.\par
We have numerous different golf variables.\par
I think there are about 15 or 16 different variables,\par
maybe slightly more or slightly fewer.\par
They refer to the ability of golfers to drive the ball,\par
to recover from rough, to recover\par
from sand bunkers, how good they are at putting,\par
all of these different variables.\par
And we have them for all players from 2004 up to 2014-15 season.\par
What we want to know with this data\par
is which one of these variables, or which two,\par
three, four, five, six of these variables,\par
might be the most useful metric to discover which players score\par
the best scores-- which in golf, is actually the lowest scores.\par
And from this table, it's almost incomprehensible.\par
So what we're going to do is build a dashboard that\par
allows us to explore each of these variables,\par
to explore whether individuals that drive the ball further--\par
are they more or less accurate than those individuals that\par
drive the ball less distance?\par
Are good putters-- do they school\par
lower rounds than bad putters, which\par
the obvious answer is yes.\par
But are good putters plus good sand players\par
better than bad sand players and good putters, for instance?\par
We're going to find out all of those relationships,\par
and the easiest way to do that would be to build a dashboard.\par
So this is step one in our dashboard.\par
And as you can see, we have main content\par
in the middle of the dashboard.\par
We have here four different panels, of which\par
one of the panels has a graph.\par
Another panel has some text, and the other two panels, for now,\par
are hidden.\par
They are drop down menus.\par
Over on the right-hand side over here,\par
we have a tab called Options.\par
And there's various different options underneath,\par
which I will explain what this means in a moment.\par
And we have a left panel over here\par
that has various other tabs.\par
And these tabs are to get to different visualizations,\par
different types of analyses.\par
And we're on the very first tab that has data\par
in it called Distributions.\par
So this dashboard-- behind this dashboard\par
is that very huge spreadsheet of golf statistics.\par
And I have linked this dashboard,\par
through writing some code, to be able to produce visualisations\par
that we can dynamically change.\par
Let's look at the first visualization.\par
This is just a histogram showing the distribution\par
of driving distances of every single player\par
across all different years.\par
So this is driving distance in meters.\par
We can see there is some individuals that\par
almost get to 325 meters.\par
There are some individuals who are\par
over 310 meters in average driving distance in a season.\par
But the mean, as we can see here--\par
I've said compute the mean-- the mean is at 289 meters.\par
There's some individuals who are very, very low.\par
This is obviously a normal distribution,\par
but we could also test for that and have\par
the result show up down here.\par
Now, this is all data over all years.\par
We know it's driving distance because it\par
says it's driving distance.\par
If we wanted to change that, we could change it\par
with this dropdown menu.\par
I've inputted the different columns that I'm interested in.\par
And we can have a look at anything we want to look at.\par
So let's just look at driving accuracy.\par
This is what percent of time they reach the fairway\par
off the drive.\par
And we can see here that it varies between a low end, 40%,\par
and a high end around 80%.\par
But the mean here is at 62.6%.\par
Now, because some histograms are going to have different bin\par
widths, I've actually added a little slider\par
up here which enables us to adjust the bin widths to make\par
the graph more readable so that the bins\par
between different units are shorter\par
so that we can see more effectively what\par
we're looking at.\par
I've also got a hidden panel here,\par
which when I drop this down, it will\par
show a box plot of the driving accuracy by year.\par
So we have plotted 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, all the way up\par
to 2015.\par
What you're seeing here with the box plot is\par
that the black line in the middle-- I'll\par
hover over it here-- this is the median driving accuracy.\par
So in 2004, the median was just under 65%.\par
It's dropped nearer 60% in 2012.\par
And all of these dots are showing, effectively,\par
the distribution.\par
So up to here is at the 95% confidence intervals,\par
and there's a couple of outliers.\par
You can actually hover over the data points\par
to get more information about the data points.\par
So this is an outlier in 2015.\par
Francesco Molinari is the most accurate player,\par
and he's an outlier here.\par
Let's just change this back to driving distance.\par
People that actually follow golf might not\par
be surprised to know that the outlier in 2015\par
is Dustin Johnson.\par
He drives the ball by far the furthest of any player.\par
So we can interact here.\par
We can also use this dropdown menu.\par
If we're not just interested in all scores,\par
we could just look at the 2015 data.\par
And here it looks slightly less attractive.\par
But we could change our bin width\par
to make it look more attractive if we wished.\par
And when I say "more attractive,"\par
I'm essentially meaning to communicate more effectively.\par
Another feature I have added here-- let's\par
just change this back to All Years, which with my menu\par
is-- I have another box down here.\par
This is essentially just a short list.\par
It's a top five individuals.\par
So we can see over all years, the individual who\par
drove the bull the furthest was Bubba Watson in 2006.\par
His score was 319.\par
And then we have some other individuals here.\par
This is JB Holmes.\par
Here's Dustin Johnson, 2015.\par
If we wanted to look at the top 15 individuals,\par
I could change this number to 15.\par
And now the dashboard is returning the top 15\par
individuals in that time.\par
And we can have a look at who else.\par
Bubba Watson appears almost every single year.\par
Another thing I would highlight about this,\par
is just as a slight caveat, I've added this pink shading\par
to the Value column, which is just highlighting--\par
enabling people to see more effectively the degree\par
of difference in these scores.\par
So rather than this just being a boring table,\par
we can actually see more effectively\par
the degree of difference between the different scores.\par
So this is the very simple first page of our dashboard.\par
It's really, in essence, a way of just getting\par
to know the different variables in the data set.\par
We can play around with them at will.\par
I've really just looked at driving distance.\par
But we have goes for green, which\par
is individuals who take risks to try and get\par
to the green in fewer shots.\par
Sand Save is how good they are at getting out of the bunker\par
effectively.\par
Scrambling, how good they are at getting out of rough.\par
And there's some various other putting statistics.\par
Let's have a look, for instance, at putts average.\par
And that histogram does not look like a histogram\par
that we would expect.\par
But if I change the bin width all the way down,\par
we're now seeing it's also normally distributed.\par
So on average, the professional golf player\par
is taking 29 and a little bit putts per round.\par
So this is just a very effective way\par
of interacting to get to know our variables.\par
And in the next step of this dashboard,\par
we're going to look at how these variables interact with one\par
another little bit more.\par
So again, thinking in terms of information hierarchy--\par
i.e. which charts do we want to present first\par
in our dashboard-- the first charts I wanted to present\par
were just the distributions of the data\par
so that the viewers could get to know the data.\par
The second step I want people to follow\par
is which variables are related to which other variables.\par
To do that, I've simply just plotted\par
some scatter plots, xy plots of driving distance\par
against-- in this case, we have scoring average,\par
and on the right-hand side, we have driving accuracy\par
against scoring average.\par
So lowest scores in golf mean that you're a better golfer.\par
Let's look at this left-hand panel here.\par
This is a graph of driving distance in meters\par
again scoring average.\par
And we can see that there are some players down here that\par
drive the ball a very, very, very long way,\par
and they have low scores on average.\par
And we can actually hover over these points.\par
You'll notice that they go red, get a little bit bigger.\par
And he's a famous golfer-- Tiger Woods.\par
He's down here.\par
This is also Tiger Woods, 2007.\par
This is Tiger Woods in 2009.\par
And if we go a bit further over here,\par
this is Tiger Woods in 2005.\par
And that's Bubba Watson in 2015.\par
So we can see this relationship.\par
Certainly, it looks from the scatterplot\par
that it's a small effect, but significant.\par
And down in this box here, we actually do have a correlation.\par
This is just a Pearson's correlation\par
showing that it's a small effect, but highly significant.\par
That's not surprising.\par
We have a very, very large sample size.\par
We could break this down by year.\par
So let's just look at 2015.\par
And we see this scatterplot.\par
We get the information about the correlation coefficient.\par
Here, it's minus 0.33.\par
Again, there are some outliers-- the individuals who\par
drive the ball a huge distance.\par
They're actually scoring very highly.\par
But there's also this player here-- Jordan Spieth,\par
I believe-- who drives the ball an average distance, yet he\par
has a very low score.\par
On the right-hand side, here we have driving accuracy.\par
And we can see from this value here that there is also\par
a very slight relationship such that individuals\par
who drive the ball more accurately-- they have scores\par
in the 70%, 75% range-- are scoring, on average, better\par
golf scores, lower golf scores.\par
Let's go back to All Years just to be\par
able to look at the visualisation more effectively.\par
Another thing that I have added with this dashboard\par
is the ability to change the opacity of the dots.\par
By doing something such as this, we\par
can actually fade out some of the dots,\par
meaning that we can see how heavily laid\par
on top of each other lots of different data points are.\par
That can be a very useful technique\par
for understanding where the concentration of dots are.\par
There are other techniques that we could employ to do that.\par
But just in this exploratory sense, this is a useful one.\par
And the purpose of this dashboard\par
is really for the user to start interacting with it to find out\par
about relationships.\par
So let's just look at driving distance against driving\par
accuracy.\par
This is this graph here.\par
We can see that this now is a very, very\par
significant relationship.\par
It's great to be able to be accurate.\par
It's great to be able to drive the ball a really long way.\par
But it's actually hard to do both simultaneously.\par
Individuals who drive the ball a very, very long way\par
are much less accurate than individuals who\par
don't drive the ball very far.\par
They tend to be more accurate.\par
But obviously, if they weren't very accurate\par
and they didn't drive the ball very far,\par
they wouldn't be playing on the PGA tour.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 