{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 A further advantage of dashboards\par
that I discussed in the introduction\par
was that particularly for exploratory analysis,\par
we can look at how statistical models can\par
be influenced by particular parameters,\par
be they input variables or be they things such as constants.\par
I just want to give you a very simple example\par
of how dashboards can be used in this context.\par
Usually when we're doing a statistical analysis,\par
we get all our data, our information,\par
we run the analysis, we get the results.\par
But often cases, especially with an exploratory type analysis\par
such as the example I'm showing you here,\par
which is factor analysis, we may want to iterate that process\par
and do it a few times in different ways,\par
and we would be justified in this sense\par
because this is an exploratory type analysis.\par
Using a dashboard with interactive capabilities\par
can be a very, very useful, quick, and effective way\par
of doing that.\par
What you can see up here are the results of a factor analysis\par
that we have dictated that there are three factors that we want\par
to see how each variable-- such as driving accuracy, which\par
is driving percent here, driving average, green in regulation\par
percent, et cetera-- how they all are related to one another.\par
And so what the factor analysis is doing\par
is saying that these variables load onto factor one, factor\par
two, or factor three, and the loading score\par
is giving us some information as to how strongly each variable\par
is loading onto each factor.\par
And so what I've done with this table is\par
I have listed the loadings of each variable,\par
but I've also color-coordinated it such that in red you\par
are seeing the ones that are the most strongly associated\par
with a particular factor.\par
So for instance, let's just look at factor one.\par
We can see here that driving percent is negatively\par
loaded, 0.57, whereas driving average is incredibly\par
positively loaded, 0.96.\par
This means that driving average really contributes strongly\par
to this factor one.\par
Going for the green percentage, 0.87 is high,\par
but then with the red coloring, we can see that par 4, par 5,\par
30% are also strongly linked to factor one.\par
This is a fair and fine way of visualizing the data.\par
However, it can also be a little bit atypical.\par
Often people will drop the scores that are too low.\par
So I have given the dashboard the option of doing that.\par
So low loadings, let's remove them.\par
And now it becomes a little bit more\par
easy to see the results of the factor analysis.\par
And this is a great thing to do in a dashboard,\par
is that we can identify key parts of the data\par
more effectively through filtering.\par
So here we can now see that actually the factor two appears\par
to be related more to putting and scrambling\par
and sand save percent scores, which is effectively golfers\par
that are good about getting out of trouble\par
and then their putting game saves them\par
from getting to a better score.\par
The other thing we can do with an exploratory analysis\par
such as this is that we can change\par
how loaded, how strongly a variable is\par
loaded onto a factor.\par
We can filter them.\par
So at the minute, this is set to 0.3,\par
which means that it's highlighting\par
all the variables that load onto a factor at minus 0.3 or lower,\par
or 0.3 and above.\par
But we may want to be more stringent with our factor\par
analysis and change this, for instance,\par
up to maybe something like 0.5.\par
Is that 0.56?\par
And you can see that it's actually\par
removed some of the ones that are now\par
not as strongly associated, and it gives us\par
a much clearer perspective on which variables load onto\par
which factors.\par
And we can roughly determine from looking at this\par
that factor one really is about being a long hitter of the golf\par
ball, even if you're not that accurate.\par
Factor two is really about being very good at putting,\par
and factor three appears to be just [INAUDIBLE]\par
related to this green in regulation.\par
So green in regulation may be a factor that's\par
more really about you get to the green in the correct number\par
of strokes, but you might get there\par
in different ways, i.e. you just get there through power\par
or you may get there through accuracy.\par
It's about getting there in the fewer strokes.\par
That's the most important thing.\par
You will also notice that down here we\par
have this box called proportion of variance explained,\par
and we can see here that factor one explains\par
26% of the proportion of variance in the data\par
that we inputted into the factor analysis.\par
Factor two has 21%, and factor three has 14%.\par
And this is a factor analysis that we\par
did when we included all of the variables, but like I said,\par
the advantage of a dashboard is that we\par
can change our model to adjust parameters dynamically.\par
So one thing we could do would be\par
to remove certain variables that we no longer think\par
are that interesting.\par
Let's remove, for instance, sand save percentage,\par
and you'll notice when I remove it\par
that the proportion of variance explained and the loading\par
scores will all change.\par
So they have changed, but it hasn't really\par
changed the overall underlying message of this analysis.\par
Another thing that changes dynamically\par
is this plot over here.\par
This is the individual scores plot.\par
What we have here, I have simply just plotted\par
the scores of each individual for factor one and factor two.\par
So an individual's factor one score\par
can be considered as an underlying\par
proxy of an aggregated variable of all\par
of these different variables.\par
So you would imagine from looking at the loadings\par
that somebody who has a high factor one score\par
is going to be a very, very long hitter of the golf ball.\par
If we hover over the points, and that's confirmed.\par
Bubba Watson, Dustin Johnson, Jason Day--\par
all of the long hitters of the golf ball.\par
And factor two, if we look at our loadings,\par
we can see that somebody who has a negative putting\par
average score, which means that they are very good at putting,\par
they have low scores, factor two should be related to that.\par
So if we look at some of these golfers,\par
we will notice that the ones who are scoring\par
the lowest are actually not very good putters,\par
and the ones who are scoring the highest--\par
Jordan Spieth, probably the best putter of last year--\par
has the highest scores.\par
So the really useful thing about the dashboard\par
is that we can look at the loadings, the visualization.\par
We can adjust our parameters on the fly,\par
but we can also do some other things to tweak\par
the visualization dynamically.\par
For instance, we can add some gridlines.\par
This now enables us to see that individuals\par
in this quadrant, individuals who are both very good\par
putters of the golf ball and they also\par
hit the ball a fairly long way, above average, more or less,\par
whereas individuals down here are both not hitting the golf\par
ball very far and they're also not very good at putting.\par
An additional change we can make to this individual scores plot\par
would be to plot factor three.\par
Now, as you can see, it's a scatter plot\par
what we have two variables, x and y, factor one and factor\par
two.\par
But we can change this scatter plot into something\par
that's called a bubble chart, and what that means is\par
that we will add a third variable, the z variable, which\par
will be factor three, but we'll adjust the size of the dot\par
with the size of that dot representing the third factor.\par
So individuals that have a very large dot\par
will have a high factor three score.\par
Individuals with a small dot will now\par
have a low factor three score.\par
So let's change that, and we can do that dynamically.\par
So now we can see the change in the dot size.\par
And over here, Jordan Spieth's dot\par
is very, very, very large, meaning he has a high factor\par
three score, which means that he is also\par
exceptionally good at getting on the green in regulation.\par
Whereas some individuals down here,\par
for instance, Geoff Ogilvy, has a low factor one, two,\par
and three score, which is obviously not very good.\par
Another way in which we can use this dashboard interactively as\par
well as changing the input parameters\par
to get different information about individual scores, plots,\par
loadings, and proportion of variance\par
is we can actually change the input data set.\par
So in this example, I'll just change the year.\par
So here's 2013.\par
These are now the plot scores of all the individual scores\par
in 2013, and we also see the loadings\par
and the proportion of variance explained, et cetera.\par
So dashboards are a really useful tool\par
for being able to interact with our data.\par
The final series of plots I have here\par
are looking at how each factor correlates\par
with scoring average, and these plots are down in the bottom.\par
Here is factor one and scoring average,\par
and I will scroll down.\par
Here is factor two and factor three.\par
So just an eyeballing of this information\par
is that we can see that factor one seems\par
to be incredibly strongly related to scoring\par
such that individuals who score highly on factor one, which we\par
are seeing is a proxy for hitting the ball really far,\par
they score the lowest scores, meaning\par
the best scores, in this sense.\par
Factor two and factor three are also related to low scores,\par
but less strongly than factor one.\par
Hopefully I have demonstrated that dashboards\par
are an effective visualization tool.\par
They enable us to interact with our data\par
in multiple different ways.\par
We can adjust parameters, adjust inputs,\par
use multiple different data sets,\par
and link charts, tables, and exploratory analyses\par
together such that we are able to extract\par
multiple pieces of information from multiple data sets\par
dynamically.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 