{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Now I'll tell you a more involved story\par
from my own research.\par
My colleagues and I use graphs to pull together\par
information from many sources to get a better understanding\par
of American politics.\par
The underlying question, why is it\par
that rich states, such as New York and California,\par
vote for candidates on the left while the poor states\par
in the South vote for candidates on the right?\par
This makes no sense.\par
You'd expect rich areas to be conservative and poor areas\par
to support redistribution.\par
This map shows an example from the 2004 vote.\par
Other recent elections look similar.\par
Perhaps the pattern in the map is just\par
an artifact, something to do with the visual image\par
of the large, low population states taking up\par
so much space on the map.\par
No, it's not an artifact.\par
Let's do some exploratory analysis\par
by looking at the data a different way.\par
Look at the scatter plot.\par
Each of the 50 states is shown, plotting vote share\par
for George W. Bush in 2004 versus the average income\par
in the state.\par
Poor, conservative states are in the upper left and rich,\par
liberal states are in the lower right.\par
The poorest states all voted for George W. Bush,\par
and almost all the richest states\par
voted for his democratic opponent.\par
So what's going on?\par
Are rich people suddenly voting for the Democrats?\par
No.\par
Here's another source of data from public opinion polls.\par
The richer you are, the more likely\par
you are to vote Republican.\par
The higher your individual income, the higher the vote\par
share for George W. Bush.\par
And this is true in different parts of the country.\par
This graph shows survey data from congressional elections.\par
Each line shows a different region of the country\par
and each line shows Republican share\par
of the vote as a function of income.\par
In every part of the country, richer people\par
are more likely to vote Republican.\par
To resolve the paradox, to understand how rich states vote\par
for Democrats while rich people vote Republican,\par
we need a more complicated graph.\par
This graph shows Mississippi, the poorest state\par
in America, Ohio, a middle income state, and Connecticut,\par
the richest state, and our estimate of George Bush's vote\par
share in each state by income in the 2000 presidential election.\par
The graph is complex.\par
I'm showing it to you to demonstrate the power\par
of exploratory analysis.\par
When we did the study in 2008 it was new to people.\par
People felt it was important.\par
I'm to explain this to you not because you\par
need to understand this level of detail in American politics,\par
but to give you a sense of how we\par
use statistical models and graphical analysis\par
to learn about complex social phenomena.\par
You should be able to do similar things in your own work,\par
not to immediately fit models of this complexity,\par
but to be able to visualize subtle, seemingly contradictory\par
patterns and data.\par
Now back to the graph.\par
For each state, the line shows the probability\par
of voting for George W. Bush in 2000\par
as a function of individual income.\par
In Mississippi, rich people are much more Bush-voting\par
than poor people.\par
In Ohio, rich people voted for Bush slightly more\par
than poor people.\par
In Connecticut, there is essentially\par
no relation between income and how you vote.\par
The size of each open circle displays the size\par
of the group in the population relative to the country\par
as a whole.\par
Mississippi has a large circle of the low-income category\par
and a small circle of the high-income category indicating\par
that relative to the country, Mississippi has relatively\par
more low-income people.\par
The five circles in Ohio are roughly the same size,\par
indicating that Ohio's income distribution is similar to that\par
in the nation as a whole.\par
Whereas Connecticut has the largest circles\par
in the high-income category, indicating that Connecticut\par
has more high-income people.\par
The solid circles show the average income\par
and the average probability of voting\par
for Bush among each state.\par
As you go from Mississippi to Ohio to Connecticut\par
the solid circles show that you're going from low-income\par
to high-income state, while the probability of voting for Bush\par
is going down.\par
So this graph shows how within each state\par
richer people can be more likely to vote for George W. Bush,\par
but between states, the richer states\par
are more likely to vote for the Democrat.\par
This work is important.\par
It helps us understand political polarization in America,\par
and, of course, American politics\par
affects people around the world.\par
The differences between conservative and liberal\par
America, between red America and blue America,\par
are concentrated in the upper half of the income\par
distribution.\par
And you can see this in the graph.\par
At the lower end of the income distribution\par
you see people in Mississippi, Ohio, and Connecticut\par
voting similarly, but when you go to higher income voters\par
you see a much greater geographic differences\par
in how they vote.\par
Poor Americans are not politically divided\par
by geography in the same way as rich Americans.\par
Income predicts Republican voting\par
in poor states such as Mississippi,\par
but not in rich states such as Connecticut.\par
The message to you is that the real world is complicated\par
but we can learn by careful study of data.\par
We'll wrap up our class with an example\par
that you can do yourself in R using publicly available data\par
that you can download and analyze.\par
These are the kinds of analyses that you\par
can be doing right away.\par
We'll explore data from the Fatal Accident Reporting\par
System, which is described as a nationwide census regarding\par
fatal injuries suffered in motor vehicle traffic crashes.\par
You can download the data and look at crashes by date,\par
hour of day, type of crash, and many other factors.\par
We're using it as an example of how you can learn\par
from exploring a data set.\par
In your own work, you'll have access\par
to data sets large and small and you'll\par
have to do the exploration yourself.\par
At this point I've shown you some complicated stuff.\par
Now, here's some simple but open-ended data exploration\par
you can do yourself.\par
I'll quickly go through the data set\par
and demonstrate some of the things you can do.\par
We'll start by downloading a year's worth of data\par
and plotting by day of week.\par
More people die on Friday and the weekends.\par
You can see that in the graph.\par
The total number of deaths in the year\par
is approximately 5,000 times 7, or 35,000.\par
Next we look at hour of day-- lots\par
of deaths in the afternoon and early evening\par
and then another peak around 2 in the morning.\par
If you break it up by day and hour,\par
you see lots of deaths on Friday and Saturday nights.\par
Was the driver drunk?\par
Most of the time, not.\par
This is what the graph tells you.\par
Drunk driving deaths are concentrated on the weekends.\par
Other deaths are spread out during the week.\par
And we used R to break up the data\par
and graph them in this way.\par
Or we can break things up by state.\par
Here are traffic deaths plotted vs population for the 50\par
states.\par
Bigger states have more deaths, no surprise.\par
Let's redo this.\par
We're going to redo and plot deaths per million people.\par
Now we see that the states with the highest deaths per million\par
people, Wyoming, Mississippi.\par
And then at the other end, D.C., Massachusetts, Rhode Island,\par
New Jersey, some of the more urban states\par
have lower rates of traffic deaths.\par
So you can learn something by cleaning up your data\par
a little bit before graphing.\par
Now we'll try another graph, plotting deaths\par
per billion miles traveled.\par
So now it's not deaths per population,\par
but deaths per mile, and we see a slightly different pattern\par
this way.\par
We could do other things, for example,\par
comparing drunk and sober deaths by state.\par
Here we see, for example, that Wyoming has\par
a lot of deaths of both types.\par
Montana has relatively more drunk driving deaths,\par
whereas a state such as Iowa has relatively few drunk driving\par
deaths and more deaths from sober drivers, and so on.\par
We can look at all sorts of patterns in the data.\par
The sky's the limit.\par
You can play with this data yourself.\par
You can load in the data, take a look at the numbers,\par
and pull out different variables.\par
You can plot different outcomes as a function of date, time,\par
state, and other variables.\par
It's open-ended what you can do.\par
There's no script.\par
This is exploratory data analysis.\par
We don't want to tell you what to do.\par
We want to give you the tools so that you can decide yourself\par
what to look at and how to explore.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 