{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 Having done this exploratory analysis,\par
we can now do further analytical work.\par
We can compute what's called an age-adjusted death rate.\par
At each age, we compute the death rate per year of age,\par
and then we average those over a standardized population.\par
And I'll show you what we get.\par
These are the age-adjusted death rates relative to 1999.\par
And the pattern is pretty clear.\par
From 1999 to about 2005, there is a 5% increase\par
in death rates among middle-aged non-Hispanic whites.\par
Since 2005, the pattern has been flat.\par
So the headlines that we saw talking\par
about an alarming increase in death rates were misleading.\par
There was an alarming increase from 1999 to 2005,\par
but it's been stable ever since.\par
So the headlines really should have said,\par
there was an alarming increase that ended 10 years ago.\par
Because the rest is explained by the statistical artifact,\par
which we saw using our exploratory analysis.\par
This is more than one way to age adjust.\par
To make this graph, we adjusted to a uniform distribution\par
of ages-- that is, we took the death rates per year of age\par
and then mapped them to a hypothetical population\par
in which there are equal numbers of people\par
between every age of 45 and 54, and then\par
had that equal distribution of ages\par
go all the way from 1999 to 2013.\par
As a result, what we see here is the death rate\par
you would have seen had the distribution\par
of ages been uniform throughout.\par
We can also adjust to other distributions.\par
This graph shows the adjustment to two other distributions--\par
the age distribution in 1999 and the age distribution in 2013.\par
What you should focus on in this graph\par
is not the small differences between these two lines,\par
but rather, their similarity.\par
It's very important to age adjust these data.\par
Otherwise, you get the wrong story.\par
But exactly how you do the age adjustment isn't so important.\par
As I said earlier, the trends that\par
were reported among middle-aged, non-Hispanic whites\par
were particularly newsworthy because they occurred\par
during a period in which other groups in the United States\par
and groups in other countries had declining mortality rates.\par
I don't easily have access to data from the other countries,\par
but I was able to grab the data from the United States\par
and make some graphs.\par
Here, I'm displaying trends in death rates since 1999\par
among non-Hispanic whites, Hispanic whites,\par
and African Americans.\par
Those are the three rows of the graph.\par
And I have three columns.\par
I figured, why look just at the age 45 to 54?\par
I'm going to look at the entire middle age category--\par
everyone from 45 to 64.\par
So I have three age bins-- 35 to 44, 45 to 54, and 55 to 64.\par
All of these graphs are age adjusted.\par
And in each of these graphs, I've\par
also shown separate lines for men and for women.\par
The women are in red and the men are in blue.\par
Let's start with non-Hispanic whites, 45 to 54.\par
That's what we were talking about before.\par
As I had said, there's a slight but steady increase\par
from 1999 to 2005.\par
After 2005, the death rate among this group was flat.\par
These lines don't look flat, though.\par
What's going on?\par
The death rate was increasing among women\par
and decreasing among men during this period.\par
So actually, middle aged white men\par
have been doing better since 2005,\par
but middle aged white women have been doing worse.\par
Now let's check the other age categories.\par
Younger non-Hispanic whites have had a similar pattern--\par
an increase in death rate followed by, in this case,\par
a flat line for women and a decreased for men.\par
So whatever story we want to tell about non-Hispanic whites\par
from 45 to 54, there's a similar story for the younger ones\par
as well.\par
It was not just the older group.\par
Everybody else, though, the death rates\par
are very stunningly going down.\par
Old people-- their death rates were declining steadily,\par
at least up till 2010 for old whites.\par
Elderly Hispanic whites and elderly African Americans\par
also showed declines in death rates,\par
with again, a flattening in the last couple of years.\par
Similarly, other groups of Hispanics and African Americans\par
again showed a steady decline and death rate.\par
After doing the age adjustment, the original story still\par
holds-- young and middle-aged non-Hispanic whites\par
look different from everybody else.\par
Everybody else has shown the decline in death rate,\par
and these groups have not.\par
Believe it or not, this is a five-dimensional graph.\par
Now, you don't need to put on any special 5-D glasses\par
to see this.\par
Let me explain.\par
We're plotting death rate.\par
That's one dimension.\par
And we're plotting it versus four predictors.\par
Those are the four other dimensions.\par
What are the four other predictors?\par
There's time, there is ethnicity-- non-Hispanic white,\par
Hispanic white, African American.\par
There's age category-- 35 to 44, 45 to 54, 55 to 64.\par
And there's sex-- men or women.\par
So again the five variables-- death rate\par
plotted against time, ethnicity, age category, and sex.\par
This is a five-dimensional graph.\par
This shows the power of exploratory data analysis,\par
especially when coupled with statistical modeling.\par
We can look at so much.\par
Instead of just having a statement\par
saying death rates have increased,\par
death rates have decreased, and then having a bunch words,\par
a bunch of numbers that are hard to compare,\par
instead, we can simply look at all of the data at once.\par
We can draw our own conclusions.\par
And that's very powerful.\par
This is a way that we can learn.\par
And we can go further.\par
To illustrate, here I've drilled down and looked at the data\par
by year of age among Hispanic men and women in the 35 to 64\par
category.\par
I could have looked at anything.\par
Actually, I made graphs of non-Hispanic whites.\par
I made graphs of Hispanic whites.\par
I made graphs of African Americans.\par
Here, I'm just taking the grid of graphs for Hispanic whites\par
to demonstrate that if we want to,\par
we can look at the data in much more detail.\par
Here's what's happening at age 35, 36, 37, 38.\par
This allows us to get beyond the arbitrary bins of 35 to 44,\par
45 to 54, 55 to 64.\par
And then at the end, we have the summaries.\par
Now, in this case, after looking at the patterns for each year,\par
I felt that the data could be reasonably summarized by the 3\par
10-year bins.\par
It wasn't clear to me that there was anything\par
so exciting about what was happening at age 35\par
compared to what's happening at age 36 or age 37.\par
That often happens in statistical analysis.\par
You look at the data at a finer and finer grid,\par
and at some point, you decide this is more data,\par
this is more detail than we really need.\par
And so then we go back.\par
In this case, we can go back and look at the data aggregated\par
in this way.\par
I wouldn't want to combine men and women, though,\par
because there are key differences between the two\par
sexes.\par
So I needed to look at all of these things--\par
men and women, single, year of age,\par
and other things-- in order to decide what we ultimately\par
wanted to focus on.\par
Graphs such as this are valuable,\par
and people don't always see them.\par
These are the graphs that get done that you never\par
see-- the graph that I needed to make in order\par
to accept that the earlier graph was enough.\par
In summary, we've learned from exploratory graphics\par
when coupled with statistical analysis.\par
We can learn more from data when we break up data\par
into smaller pieces.\par
But at that point, we do have to be careful\par
that our analysis accounts for aspects of the data collection.\par
For example, here, we need to do age adjustment\par
to correct for differences in age profiles in each\par
of these groups as from time to time.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 