{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 In our next example, we're going to demonstrate\par
how a combination of statistical modeling\par
and statistical graphics can help us learn and explore\par
a data set.\par
The example appeared in the press recently.\par
It was a study reporting a unique turnaround in increase\par
in mortality of middle-aged, white, non-Hispanic men\par
and women.\par
We're going to start with the raw data,\par
then do some adjustments, then do some further adjustments\par
to see how each step, the adjustment changes our story.\par
At the end, we've actually learned something\par
beyond what was originally reported\par
in the scientific journal and in the popular press.\par
We're going to follow the published paper\par
and focus on mortality-- that is death\par
rates-- among non-Hispanic white Americans\par
between the ages of 45 and 54.\par
These data are available from the website\par
of the Center for Disease Control, and you or anyone else\par
can easily download them and analyze them.\par
I'll start with the raw deaths.\par
The data that we can easily grab start in 1999\par
and go until 2013.\par
During this period, we show the deaths each year\par
among this age group.\par
It started out at about 110,000, and then increased fairly\par
steadily all the way until about 2009,\par
and then decreased after that.\par
So this seems worth reporting first-- a seeming epidemic\par
of increased deaths, and then good news after 2009.\par
But this isn't really the thing that we should look at.\par
This is the number of deaths, but we need the denominator.\par
We need to know how many people were in that age group who were\par
eligible to die, as it were.\par
We can look up those data, too.\par
And you see almost the exact same pattern.\par
There's an increase of the number of non-Hispanic whites\par
in the 45 to 54 age bin from 1999 to about 2009, and then\par
a decrease thereafter.\par
Why is this happening?\par
In the post-war period in the United States,\par
there was a baby boom.\par
A lot of people were born between 1946 and 1964.\par
That baby boom moves through the demographic distribution,\par
and by the time we hit the 2000s,\par
the baby boomers are middle aged.\par
And so what we're seeing here is the passing\par
of the baby boom through the 45 to 54 age group.\par
And we clearly need to adjust for this.\par
It's pretty meaningless to say that the number of deaths\par
is increasing if, at the exact same time,\par
the number of people in the denominator is increasing, too.\par
So we'll divide.\par
This is the raw death rate from 1999 to 2013.\par
We see a steady increase in the death\par
rate among middle-aged non-Hispanic whites.\par
I'm not going to show you here the data in other countries,\par
the data for blacks, the data for Hispanics,\par
but the other groups showed a decrease in mortality rate\par
during this period.\par
So it was very notable that middle-aged whites\par
were dying at a higher rate, and this got a lot of press.\par
But we have to think about this one more carefully, too.\par
Because what's happening between 2002 and 2013\par
as the Baby Boomer generation is moving through the 45 to 54\par
age group?\par
The average age of 45 to 54-year-olds is going up.\par
In 1999, the average 45 to 54-year-old\par
was on the young side, because the baby boom generation was\par
just entering this group.\par
And by 2013, the typical 45 to 54-year-old was a bit older.\par
So during this period, the people in this age category\par
were getting older.\par
And given that they're getting older,\par
you might expect that their death rate would be increasing\par
over time just from that, because older people are\par
more likely to die in any given year than younger people are.\par
So we're going to look at the data now on age.\par
This graph shows the average age in the 45 to 54-year-old\par
age group from the same CDC data that we\par
had before for each year starting in 1999\par
and going to 2013.\par
And indeed, the average age goes up.\par
It's a steady increase.\par
This actually looks a little weird\par
that there's a big jump in 2001.\par
What's going on there?\par
I'm going to actually check another data source.\par
I'm going to get some other data from the web about the age\par
distribution and see what they say, too.\par
So I'm going to plot that overlaying it.\par
And the other data set extrapolating from the census\par
shows something similar.\par
It turns out there really was a spike in births many years ago.\par
And as a result, you see this spike in the 45 to 54\par
age group echoing from the spikes in births\par
many decades earlier.\par
So it's not an artifact of the data.\par
There really seems to be this pattern of increasing\par
average age in this bin.\par
Now let's look at the numbers.\par
The bin is from 45 to 54.\par
The average age increases from about 49.3 to 49.7.\par
That's not a huge difference, but it's something.\par
So the next question is, is this difference\par
enough to explain the increase in mortality that we saw?\par
And in this analysis, what I'm really demonstrating\par
is not just data exploration, not just graphs,\par
but the interplay between analysis and graphics.\par
We saw a graph that showed a striking pattern,\par
and then we thought, maybe it's just\par
explainable by an increase of population,\par
so we looked at that.\par
Then we took the ratio, which is an analytical step.\par
We have the graph of increasing death rates.\par
And then we said, but look, the average age is going up, too.\par
We did a calculation.\par
Now we have to do further calculations\par
to try to assess whether the average age going up\par
is enough to explain the mortality rate going up.\par
We go back and forth between analysis and graphs.\par
We can map this average increase in age in this population group\par
to an expected increase in mortality,\par
because we know the mortality rate\par
for 45-year-olds, 50-year-olds, 55-year-olds,\par
and every age in between.\par
Mortality actually increases by about 8% per year of age\par
during this period.\par
Each year, you're about 8% more likely to die\par
than you were the year before.\par
We can map those numbers into the age distributions\par
that we have.\par
We do a calculation.\par
And as a result, we get an expected increase\par
in mortality rate just from the population aging alone.\par
And here it is.\par
Just from the population aging, we'd expect the mortality rate\par
to be increasing at this rate.\par
It goes up, and then it should go down,\par
then it should keep going up again.\par
How big is this increase?\par
To understand this, let's overlay this\par
with the increase of actual mortality\par
that we saw in the data.\par
So there it is.\par
If nothing was happening in the population\par
except that the average age of the people in the 45\par
to 54-year-old group was going up,\par
we would expect to see the blue line.\par
What we really see is the white line.\par
So what's the difference?\par
About half.\par
About half of the increase in mortality\par
is explained just by an increase in average age.\par
And the other half, apparently, represents a true increase\par
in mortality, not a statistical artifact.\par
Now, to better understand this, in this graph,\par
I've anchored the two points at 1999.\par
I'm going to show you another graph where I\par
anchored the two lines at 2013.\par
This graph shows what would have happened given the mortality\par
rate by age in 2013 if we track backwards-- just again,\par
the blue line showing what would have happened\par
had there been a shift in average age.\par
And this shows that the changes since about 2004, 2005\par
are entirely explained-- almost entirely explained--\par
by changes in average age.\par
So what's actually happened in the population?\par
There was an increase in death rate-- a sharp increase\par
in death rate-- from 1999 to about 2004, 2005,\par
than a steady pattern since then.\par
The apparent increase after 2005 is a statistical artifact.\par
It's a delusion caused by the increase in average age.\par
This graphical analysis allows us to very clearly see\par
that the big changes were happening\par
between 1999 and 2005.\par
And it makes it clear that what happened\par
after 2005 was explainable more by the age shift.\par
It would be hard to see this with a table of numbers,\par
because the white lines, as you can see, are very jumpy.\par
So if you did a simple comparison of one year\par
to the next, it might be hard to see the pattern.\par
With the entire graph, the overall picture is clearer.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 