{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So in this section, I'm going to talk about the decision making\par
process for data visualization, how to choose the chart that's\par
most appropriate for the data that you want to visualize.\par
Here's an example.\par
We have a table here of the daily activity of men,\par
aged 15 and above, from six different countries.\par
In each column, you can see the hours per day\par
that each country participates in, on average.\par
So Americans, on average, are spending 4.8 hours\par
in paid work or study, whereas they're\par
spending 2.2 hours per day on average in domestic chores,\par
half an hour per day on average in childcare,\par
10.6 hours per day in sleeping and eating,\par
and 5.5 hours in leisure.\par
And then there's 0.3 of an hour in other activities.\par
We can compare the American data to other countries\par
and find patterns in this data.\par
For instance, it looks like there's very, very similar\par
amounts of hours per day spent sleeping or eating\par
by individuals in each country.\par
There seems to be a little bit more variation\par
in the paid work or study.\par
But just looking at this data by itself,\par
it's quite hard to find patterns.\par
So we need to visualize this data.\par
So here, one way of investigating\par
the amount of time spent by one country and the men\par
in that country would be to use a pie chart.\par
Here, we have the proportion of time\par
spent by American men sleeping or eating, the largest segment.\par
This section, over here, is the amount of time\par
spent in paid work or study, and over here\par
is the amount of time in leisure activity.\par
This is a fine way of visualizing this data,\par
but it might be more easy on the eye\par
if we are able to compare more quickly\par
the proportion in each time.\par
For that, we might want to use a bar chart, like this.\par
This is the amount of time spent sleeping,\par
in leisure, paid work, domestic chores, and so on,\par
and I've arranged this by the amount of time.\par
Other things you will notice is that I've\par
used very faint grid lines.\par
And I've put the text on the y-axis oriented in this fashion\par
so that we can read it quickly and easily without having\par
to refer to a legend.\par
So this is a simple way of illustrating one country's\par
amount of time spent in each activity where we can observe\par
quickly comparisons between different behavioral\par
activities.\par
What should we do if we want to compare two countries?\par
We could put two pie charts next to each other.\par
If we just compare the sleeping behavior between the two\par
countries, in this case USA, Mexico,\par
we can see they're quite similar.\par
Possibly we could also see this section here,\par
but the amount of time in leisure activities\par
is less in the Mexican group, and more\par
paid work in the Mexican men than the American men.\par
But when we have these two pie charts next to each other,\par
it's actually quite hard to draw quick comparisons between all\par
of the different sections.\par
So a more appropriate way of expressing this data-- sorry--\par
a more appropriate way of expressing these data\par
would be to use a slope graph.\par
And this is what a slow growth is.\par
Here's a slope chart.\par
What I'm plotting here on the y-axis\par
are the total amount of hours in each activity.\par
The x-axis, I have the American men, down here,\par
USA, and then the Mexican men over here.\par
Each dot represents the amount of time\par
that individual men from that country\par
are spending in that activity on average.\par
So up here, this is the amount of time\par
that American men, on average, are\par
spending sleeping and eating.\par
This is the amount of time, on average, that Mexican men are\par
spending sleeping and eating.\par
And we can see by joining those two\par
dots that the amount of time is very\par
equivalent in both countries.\par
What also stands out immediately from this graph\par
is that paid work is very different between these two\par
countries.\par
American men spend much less time, on average,\par
than Mexican men.\par
When we look at leisure, it's the other way around.\par
Mexican men is spending less time, on average per day,\par
in leisure activities than American men.\par
For the other behaviors, they're quite similar.\par
Perhaps there's a small decline here.\par
We can see domestic chores being done\par
less on average by Mexican men compared to American men.\par
So a slope chart is a very effective way\par
of comparing two different countries, proportions\par
quickly and easily in the visualization.\par
What if we wanted to compare more countries?\par
For instance, if we have six countries here,\par
we have USA, Mexico, UK, Japan, France, and Germany.\par
These are the pie charts that we have seen before.\par
It's very difficult, at quick glance,\par
to be able to understand which countries have proportionally\par
more individuals spending time in for instance, sleeping\par
activities, or in leisure activities,\par
or in paid work activities.\par
It's not very immediately obvious just\par
from these six pie charts.\par
One thing that we might think as well,\par
why don't we plot a bar graph similar to how\par
we plotted the data when we just had one pie chart, the American\par
Pie chart?\par
We could do that.\par
Here's what happens if we plot that bar chart.\par
We have our six countries along the bottom.\par
Here, they're just in alphabetical order.\par
And each bar, the color represents the behavior\par
of interests.\par
So the first pale bar is paid work, domestic chores,\par
child care, sleeping and eating, leisure time, and other.\par
This is a fine, OK representation\par
of the daily time used by individual men\par
in different countries.\par
But it's again, quite difficult to really quickly see\par
individual differences.\par
Perhaps with this bar, we can see\par
in the French group, men on average,\par
are spending longer sleeping and eating.\par
But trying to compare the other bars is quite difficult.\par
However, there is another way that we could plot these data.\par
This is looking, called a difference chart.\par
And what we have here is that this middle bar,\par
for each country, is the average amount\par
of time spent in that behavior.\par
So if a bar is right on that line,\par
it means that that country spends the average amount\par
of time in that behavior.\par
So take the sleeping and eating.\par
We already saw that the French individual\par
spent more time, on average, sleeping and eating.\par
And looking at this, we can see that they\par
spend nearly one hour longer sleeping and eating\par
than men from all other countries, on average.\par
We can then look at the next group, which is paid work.\par
And we can see that Mexican and Japanese men, on average,\par
spend far more time, nearly two hours in the Mexican group\par
and one hour in the Japanese group in those activities.\par
And the other four countries spend less time, on average.\par
We can do this for each of the different groups.\par
This is a much quicker and effective way\par
of visualizing the table of data to quickly draw\par
our attention to what is similar or different\par
between the different groups.\par
We can build a picture of Mexican and Japanese men\par
spending much more time in work activities,\par
and less time in domestic or leisure activities,\par
whereas we see the opposite for individuals\par
from the United Kingdom and the United States.\par
In the French and German groups, for instance,\par
we see individual interesting points,\par
such as the French men spending more time,\par
on average, in child care, and the German men\par
spending much less time in paid work, on average.\par
So what I hope I've shown you in this section\par
is that you need to choose the chart that\par
communicates the data most effectively\par
and communicates the story that you're\par
trying to show to your reader most easily\par
and intuitively so that it doesn't take too\par
much time before they're able to see the point we're\par
trying to make with our data.\par
I'm going to show you a couple of examples about how we can\par
make this even more effective.\par
Here's a graph looking at gender earnings\par
disparity 10 years after college enrollment.\par
Along the bottom axis here, we have a number\par
of different colleges, going from UCLA here, all the way up\par
to Harvard, here.\par
We have two different types of bars.\par
We have these darker red bars which are men,\par
and we have the lighter, paler colored bars, which are women.\par
And the y-axis is the annual salary, 10 years post\par
enrollment.\par
What's immediately obvious is that A,\par
there is a big discrepancy between which college you\par
attended and your earnings, so Harvard\par
having much higher earnings, on average, 10 years post\par
enrollment, compared to UCLA.\par
But there's also a large gender disparity.\par
This figure is fine, and it shows that data,\par
and we can see some messages fairly quickly.\par
But there's also some drawbacks.\par
There are too many bars on the x-axis.\par
It gets very difficult, for instance,\par
to make immediate comparisons between Columbia or Chicago.\par
It's also very difficult to see exactly what the gender\par
disparity is between different colleges at a glance very,\par
very quickly.\par
We want our readers to be able to pick that\par
up very quickly indeed.\par
So an alternative way of plotting these data\par
might be to do what's called a dot chart, or a dumbbell plot.\par
Here, we're now along the y-axis,\par
showing each college, in turn.\par
It's much easier to read, because the text is sideways,\par
and we don't have to turn our head to read the data,\par
read the labels.\par
The annual salary is now on the x-axis.\par
And simply, we just plot each dot\par
to be the average salary for men and women,\par
and connect them with this line, showing their gender disparity.\par
These data are plotted by an order\par
of the men's average salary, going downwards, again\par
from Harvard, all the way to UCLA.\par
This is a much cleaner visualisation.\par
It's much easier to see quickly which colleges have the largest\par
gender disparities.\par
Also, we can make comparisons much more readily,\par
for instance.\par
We can see that women in Harvard,\par
10 years after enrollment, have a similar wage to men at Tufts.\par
So we can see our message of gender disparity immediately.\par
We can also see our differences in the range\par
of salaries between different colleges immediately.\par
It's a very quick and easy way to plot the same data, which\par
uses fall less ink on the page, and draws the reader\par
into the story much quicker.\par
Here's another example about how to use minimal techniques\par
removing meaningless information,\par
and just keeping the meaningful information on the chart.\par
This is an example from The Economist.\par
What they're plotting in this graph along the x-axis\par
are different regions of the world.\par
We have developed countries, the Middle East, East Asia,\par
and Latin America.\par
The y-axis is the labor force participation rate.\par
It's a little bit difficult to tell,\par
because it's on the right hand side, which is unusual.\par
And also, the title is at the top.\par
It's not by the axis.\par
Then when we look at the main graph, it takes a bit of time\par
before we can actually orient to what's being shown.\par
We can see that this is labeled men.\par
And down here is labeled women.\par
So we've now realized that the red lines represent\par
data for women, and the blue lines, data for men.\par
Then we realize that they've annotated some dates here.\par
So this is 1990, and this is 2013.\par
So now we can realize that this is actually showing the labor\par
force participation rate from 1990, up to 2013\par
in different regions for women and for men.\par
There's all this shading and extra color,\par
and it's not very easy to quickly pick up\par
what the story is that they're trying to tell us.\par
So I've replotted this data using another dot plot.\par
Here, on the y-axis, I have the region, 1990, or 2013,\par
developed countries, Middle East, East Asia, Latin America.\par
Along the x-axis, I have workforce participation rates\par
going from 0% to 100%, and I've plotted\par
with adults the men's labor force participation rates\par
and women's labor force participation rates.\par
Here, it's much easier to quickly see the change\par
from 1990 to 2013, or indeed, how similar\par
the difference between women and men's participation rates\par
are between these two time intervals.\par
It's much harder to see that on the previous graph,\par
where we have to look and navigate to see what is 1990\par
and what is 2013.\par
The other thing that we can quickly see here\par
is that there are differences between different regions.\par
It's much more evident in this orientation of this chart.\par
We can see that the biggest disparity in labor force\par
participation is in the Middle East and North Africa, and also\par
similarly, in Latin America compared to, for instance,\par
the East Asia and Pacific.\par
So what I would stress with these examples\par
is we want to remove meaningless information,\par
but keep meaningful information.\par
Try and reduce the amount of ink that we use on the chart,\par
make things readable for people, and illustrate our data such\par
that it's easily accessible to the reader.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 