{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 I'm now going to mention a couple of techniques that\par
allow us to illustrate effectively\par
the points in our data that will grab our readers'\par
attentions quickly so that they're able to immediately\par
understand the message that we're trying to convey.\par
The first thing I will show you is highlighting and annotating\par
charts.\par
Here we have a graph.\par
It's quite difficult to make out what's going on in this figure.\par
It says in the title Liverpool Football Club Goal Scoring\par
1893 to 2015.\par
It says each line represents the cumulative goals scored\par
by game within one season.\par
So what we have here are the total number of goals\par
scored by Liverpool Football Club, a soccer team in England,\par
over the number of games in a season.\par
Sometimes the games would have been 40 per season,\par
sometimes they're 38.\par
One season here there is only 30 games in the season.\par
And this is the total number of goals.\par
And each line represents a different season.\par
So we can see from this chart that there\par
are some seasons where they didn't school very many goals,\par
there are some seasons where they scored a lot of goals,\par
and there's many in the middle where\par
they scored an average number of goals over the season.\par
You're now looking at the exact same shot,\par
but this time I've highlighted two lines.\par
I have this line in bright red, which is 2013.\par
I annotated that up here.\par
And this line here, the dark red line, which is 2014.\par
It's immediately obvious that these two seasons, just one\par
year apart, there's a huge divergence\par
in the amount of goal scoring by Liverpool Football Club\par
over these two time points.\par
What's more, we can see with this one red line\par
by highlighting it and also annotating this other line,\par
the highest line, that this year was a historically high goal\par
scoring season for Liverpool Football Club.\par
So we can present this information, for instance,\par
if we were trying to explain why they\par
had a historically high scoring rate\par
here compared to this season.\par
It really illustrates the difference\par
between the two seasons.\par
The actual story here is that in 2013 their best player,\par
their goal scorer, Luis Suarez, was\par
suspended for the first nine games of the season.\par
We can see this here, their scoring rate\par
was very, very similar for the first nine games.\par
Only when he came back in 2013 did the scoring rate take off,\par
whereas in 2014 after he'd left the club to Barcelona,\par
their scoring rate was much lower.\par
So just simply by highlighting two lines,\par
annotating the charts, we can see\par
that there's a narrative behind the data\par
that otherwise we wouldn't have been able to see.\par
Another way to get a lot of information\par
across very quickly and accessibly to a reader,\par
to a viewer, would be to use small multiples.\par
I'm going to show you what a small multiple is.\par
Effectively, a small multiple is a chart\par
where we have panels, where we have the same graph repeated\par
several times.\par
Here's an example where we have the same graph repeated\par
three times.\par
Here you're looking at the unemployment rate--\par
y-axis-- between 2005 and 2014.\par
And you're looking at that rate across four different groups.\par
And those four different groups are self-reported race\par
and ethnicities-- Asian, black or African-American,\par
Hispanic or Latino, and white.\par
What's evident in this panel, which\par
when we look at the top we can see\par
is individuals who have acquired a college degree,\par
is that African-American individuals, or individuals\par
who report as being black or African-American,\par
have a higher on average unemployment\par
rate than the other three race ethnicities.\par
When we move to the next panel, we\par
can see that the unemployment rate\par
is higher in this panel than the previous one.\par
And these are individuals who have received a high school\par
diploma only.\par
And in the third panel, these are individuals\par
who did not finish high school.\par
So there's a number of things that we can see in this chart.\par
First of all, every single panel has\par
the same pattern as it goes down and up and down.\par
And unsurprisingly, this is related to the recession.\par
So as the peak rises in each panel,\par
this is when the recession hit in 2008, 2009.\par
And what we can see immediately across all three groups\par
is that this was so sharp, but the recovery\par
has been much slower.\par
It's a slower decline.\par
What we can also see is that regardless\par
of the educational attainment-- less\par
than high school, high school diploma, or college degree--\par
individuals who are black or African-American\par
have a much higher unemployment rate on average\par
than the other three races and ethnicities.\par
So this small multiple is a very, very effective way\par
of getting a lot of information across very quickly.\par
We can see the effect of the educational attainment,\par
but by using different lines, we can\par
see the effect of race and ethnicity\par
and how that impacts unemployment rate.\par
We can also see this time scale going from 2005 and 2000\par
to 2014.\par
What I would highlight about this chart\par
is that we've used very, very minimal grid lines.\par
This enables the reader to focus on the time series\par
and not focus on extra details of the chart that are not\par
important to understanding what we're\par
trying to tell the viewer.\par
We've also reduced here the dates.\par
So we haven't put 06, 07, 08, 09, et cetera.\par
That would make this too clustered.\par
What we could have potentially done with this chart\par
is to use a small axis with tick marks.\par
That could have helped us to see the different years.\par
But really what I was trying to show with this chart\par
was this pattern, this curve.\par
And for that it's quite clear just using a very simple axis.\par
Here's another example of a small multiple.\par
What we have here are nine different countries.\par
And we're seeing the same data nine different times,\par
but for each country we're using a much thicker blue line\par
to highlight that country's information.\par
What we're actually looking at, if we just focus on one chart--\par
let's focus on Italy-- is the proportion of population\par
by each age group.\par
So along the x-axis we have 0, 1, 2, 3, all the way up to 100.\par
And every single interval on the x-axis\par
is the proportion of the population that\par
are 0 to 1, 1 to 2, et cetera.\par
So in Italy, by looking at Italy's data\par
compared to all of the other countries, which\par
are shown in gray on every single chart,\par
we can see that Italy has an exceptionally low number\par
of individuals who are very young in the 0 to 25 range.\par
Conversely, if we look at the other tail end of this chart,\par
we can see that Italy has a very large proportion of individuals\par
who are 75 to 100.\par
If we go to the bottom right corner,\par
we can see that Brazil has the opposite pattern.\par
Compared to all of the other countries,\par
Brazil has a population that is exceptionally young,\par
proportionally speaking.\par
They are much higher than all the others,\par
whereas they have many, many fewer individuals\par
in the 75 to 100 range.\par
So they have a very young population distribution.\par
By using this small multiple, we can see immediately\par
the patterns in different countries--\par
which countries are similar to each other, which countries are\par
different to one another?\par
For instance, we can see that Germany has a very, very\par
similar pattern to France.\par
We can also outline here that there\par
are some very interesting differences in the curve, which\par
probably relates to the demographic shifts\par
that post Second World War.\par
To a lesser effect, we see that with the Italian distribution.\par
If we look, for instance, at the Chinese graph,\par
we can see that there are very, very big changes in proportion\par
of individuals at different time points.\par
Again, related to cultural factors and historical factors.\par
If we look at the South Korean population,\par
we can see that they also have a very small proportion\par
of individuals in the very young range, similar to Italy\par
and Germany, but they also have a very small proportion\par
of individuals in the very old population.\par
Their population is much more numerous percentage-wise\par
in the middle age groups.\par
So again, by comparing and plotting\par
the same data in a multiple panel,\par
we're able to pick out patterns much more effectively.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 