{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 OK.\par
So now I'm going to do a worked example of using a data set\par
and deciding what the best chart to illustrate\par
that data might be.\par
Here's the data that I want to look at.\par
I want to examine the performance of NHL hockey teams\par
over the 2014-2015 season.\par
The data it's a very, very simple.\par
Here we our data.\par
We have the date of each game.\par
We have the home team, the visiting team.\par
We have the number of points accrued or gained\par
by the home team or by the visiting team.\par
So here, this is a game taken on the 8th of October,\par
2014 where Boston beat Philadelphia.\par
So Boston got two points for a win.\par
And Philadelphia gets zero points for a loss.\par
And you can see that I've just written on every line\par
each game who got zero points, who got two points.\par
And this goes all the way to the end of the season\par
on the 11th of April, 2015.\par
What you'll also notice is that sometimes teams for a loss\par
get one point.\par
This is if they lost in a shootout or in overtime.\par
The question that I want to ask here\par
is, did teams do uniformly badly or uniformly well\par
over the season?\par
Or did some teams do better at some points in the season\par
or worse at other points in the season?\par
By having all of this information\par
where we have all of the points accrued by date,\par
we can start to ask questions or plot charts that\par
will answer that question.\par
OK.\par
So here's a very simple plot.\par
It's a bar graph.\par
I've plotted the teams on the y-axis to make it more easy.\par
So it's a horizontal bar plot.\par
Simply, I've just plotted the team\par
that gained the most points, the New York Rangers,\par
all the way down to the Buffalo Sabres, who\par
got the least amount of points, the fewest points.\par
They just had over 50 points.\par
This is the total points over the entire season.\par
It's effectively just looking at an NHL standings table.\par
This doesn't give us any information\par
about how one team did better or worse over the season.\par
But this is viable plot of overall performance.\par
But our question is that we want to know\par
how teams did over the season.\par
So on this plot, I've plotted the game number\par
across the bottom going from the first game up to the 82nd game.\par
And I've plotted the amount of points\par
that teams have gained or accrued over that period.\par
And every line is a different team.\par
If I plotted this chart by having every single line\par
labeled with a team name, it would be completely unreadable.\par
But this data is plotted in such a way\par
that it makes it very easy to compare two teams.\par
We've annotated and highlighted in different colors\par
and different thicknesses two different teams.\par
I've chosen Toronto and Ottawa.\par
The reason I've picked these is because they\par
have different patterns.\par
Ottawa actually started OK but then gained about less\par
than average points over the first part of the season\par
before having a much sharper rise than most teams\par
and actually having quite a large number of points\par
by the season end.\par
Toronto went in the other way.\par
They started quite well and by about the game\par
30, actually had one of the highest points\par
totals in the league.\par
But then they stagnated and had a very slow increase\par
and became one of the teams with the fewest points.\par
So this is OK, this chart.\par
If we were really just interested in these two teams\par
we could get information about their relationship\par
by looking at this chart.\par
Another way that we could have illustrated these data\par
would be to use a scatter plot.\par
Simply plot the amount of points that a team\par
gained in the first half of the season\par
compared to the second half of the season.\par
That's what we've done here.\par
It's a fine graph.\par
It tells us that the amount of points that a team gained\par
in the first half of the season is\par
quite similar to the amount of points\par
that they gained in the second half of the season--\par
these three data points down here that\par
seem to have done much worse in the second half of the season\par
compared to the first half.\par
The downside to this chart is that we can't really\par
know which team is which.\par
So one thing we could do is to annotate.\par
So here we've annotated the chart.\par
I've just labelled the three data points that standout above\par
the rest-- Buffalo, Arizona, and Toronto.\par
These are three teams who did averagely\par
OK in the first half of the season\par
but much, much worse than the other teams in the second half.\par
There's a huge interval between the three\par
teams and the other teams.\par
Again, this is OK.\par
It gives us some information.\par
But it's not giving us enough information\par
about the different teams.\par
So we need to think of a different way\par
of plotting these data.\par
Earlier I introduced you to a slope chart.\par
Here's another slope chart.\par
Slope charts are really good for determining\par
a relationship and how it's similar or different\par
between different groups.\par
So in this case, our groups are teams.\par
Here on this part of the x-axis, we plot individual data points.\par
These are the number of points accrued\par
by each team in the first half of the season.\par
Here are the number of points accrued\par
by each team in the second half of the season.\par
We can see looking at the slope chart\par
that there are certain teams that gain far more points\par
than they gained in the first half in the second half.\par
Edmonton Oilers is one example.\par
New York Rangers are another example.\par
There are other teams that gained far fewer points.\par
We already identified these three teams, Toronto, Buffalo,\par
and Arizona, from the scatter plot.\par
But on the slope chart it's much more\par
easy to see how sharp that decline is from the first half\par
to the second half.\par
The other good thing about using a slope chart here\par
is that we're able to see the difference here,\par
for instance, between the New York Rangers first and second\par
is quite similar to the rate of increase\par
between Edmonton Oilers first half and second half.\par
But we're also able to see the absolute differences over time.\par
So there, New York gained far more\par
in the first half and the second half.\par
But the slopes are very similar in steepness.\par
So the slope chart is a very, very effective way\par
of visualizing quickly change from one period\par
to the next period.\par
And this illustrates our data quite well.\par
The downside to this chart is that we\par
have all of these points in the middle where,\par
if we started to label every single point,\par
it would get very, very cluttered.\par
And then it becomes very, very difficult\par
to read, even if we use the other side\par
to label some data points.\par
Here is another way of representing these data simply\par
to just look at the differential in points\par
gained from the first half to the second half.\par
What we can see here is that Minnesota Wild\par
are team they gained the most amount of points\par
in the second half compared to their first half performance.\par
They gained 18 more points than they did in the first half.\par
And we can now see that the Ottawa Senators, the team\par
that we looked at in the time series chart,\par
also had a really much improved second half performance\par
to first half performance.\par
We could also identify the team such as Toronto and Arizona\par
that did much worse in the second half\par
compared to their own first half performance.\par
This is a very, very simple visualization.\par
We can see every single individual team.\par
We can see the absolute difference.\par
In other cases, rather than doing absolute difference,\par
we may want to look at percentage difference.\par
It's very clean.\par
The gridlines are light.\par
There aren't too many gridlines.\par
But the gridlines are useful for guiding our eye\par
to understanding which teams are more or less similar than one\par
another.\par
This is completely fine.\par
In fact, this would be a very, very effective way\par
of visualizing teams that did better\par
in the second half or teams to did\par
better relative to their own performance in the first half.\par
But this still isn't getting at the question\par
of comparing individual teams over the entire time series.\par
OK.\par
So we plotted points gained in the first half of the season\par
compared to the second half of the season.\par
That gave us some information.\par
We also plotted points gained cumulatively over time.\par
That gave us some information, again.\par
Still didn't really allow us to compare all teams together\par
and to understand their pattern of change over time.\par
So what I want to show you now is another method\par
of plotting these data.\par
So one way we can look at this is\par
to look at the moving average.\par
What's represented in this cell is 22 points.\par
This is the total number of points\par
that the New York Rangers gained in the previous 20 games.\par
Again 22 points is the sum of this column here,\par
all the way down.\par
The next row down, 21st game, we have a value of 20.\par
Again, that means in the preceding 20 games,\par
starting here, they gained 20 points.\par
And so on and so forth all the way down\par
to the end of the season.\par
We can fill this row with the number of points\par
gained in every 20 games.\par
And we can already just see, just\par
looking visually, that there are some times where they\par
gained more than 30 points.\par
And there will be other times when they gained fewer points.\par
And we do this for every single team.\par
I did this programmatically.\par
But you could do this manually too if you had time.\par
It's much easier to programmatically.\par
Now we're going to visualize these data.\par
OK.\par
So now we can look at the moving points\par
total over each sliding window of 20 games.\par
Here are the 22 points gained in the first 20 games.\par
We already saw that in the spreadsheet.\par
Then it dropped in the next game to 20 points.\par
And here is our line following the line across.\par
Here is where we pointed out that they\par
have over 30 points per group of 20 games.\par
This is our line for this one team, the New York Rangers.\par
OK.\par
That's fine.\par
But it doesn't really tell us their performance relative\par
to all the other teams.\par
We need to compare them.\par
One option that we shouldn't do, but I'll show you\par
what it looks like, is to plot all of the lines\par
on the same graph.\par
Here's one way of presenting that data with all\par
of the lines on the graph.\par
It's very unreadable.\par
There are 30 lines.\par
Even if we annotate it or colored the lines,\par
it would be very difficult to know\par
which team is doing relatively better than other teams.\par
We'd have to cycle through all of the lines\par
in multiple comparisons.\par
It'd be very difficult.\par
Because we know our data little bit more now,\par
we could guess that teams at the bottom\par
here were Toronto or Arizona.\par
We'd guess that this was maybe New York or Minnesota--\par
we saw did quite well in the second half of the season.\par
But it would be very difficult. Also, notice that all of this\par
starts at 20 games.\par
We're actually wasting a lot of white space\par
here on this visualization.\par
So what we're going to do is actually do small multiples.\par
That seems to be the best way of highlighting the data.\par
Also what I'm going to do with small multiples is\par
I'm only going to show the one per team.\par
Because if we all 30 lines per team,\par
it would just be too clustered.\par
So here's our small multiple.\par
We have all 30 teams plotted.\par
The line that we're looking at is the points\par
gained in each sliding window of 20 games, from the 20 game mark\par
through the 40, 60, 80, and up to the 82nd game mark.\par
It's a very simple graph.\par
The key to the small multiple is that the scales\par
on the y-axis and the x-axis are the same\par
for every single graph.\par
We're not ever varying that.\par
It's important to keep the scales exactly the same\par
so we can immediately draw comparisons between teams.\par
We can understand what's similar or different about the teams.\par
Also, the ordering is done by the final points\par
total in terms of points average from top all the way down\par
to the bottom, Buffalo.\par
I think that this is a very, very simple way\par
of quickly viewing teams' performance\par
and comparing and contrasting.\par
We can see immediately, looking at this graph,\par
there are teams like Nashville who\par
was scoring very high relative to other teams amount of points\par
all the way through to even after halfway\par
and then they just crashed.\par
Their performance got worse and worse and worse\par
and worse and worse over every sliding window of 20 games.\par
Another example, Toronto.\par
Their crash happened about 25, 30 games in\par
and then they crashed, had a little bit of the recovery\par
at the end.\par
But this is still compared to other teams.\par
Because we have the same scales, we\par
can compare them to other teams like Colorado, Vancouver.\par
They're still not doing very well compared to other teams.\par
Buffalo's another example of a very early crash\par
and a slight recovery.\par
We can also see teams like New York\par
that we identified as doing relatively well but then very,\par
very well all the way through.\par
Another example would be Minnesota who\par
had a very, very quick rise.\par
Here's the Minnesota example.\par
Didn't do very well in the first half and then\par
of rapid rise in performance in the second half of the season.\par
So this is a really, really excellent way\par
of quickly understanding similarities and differences\par
on a very minimal chart with the same scales.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 