{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So in this section, we're going to talk\par
about why to visualize data.\par
The first reason is because large data sets\par
are very hard to interpret just by visual inspection\par
of the raw data alone.\par
It can be incredibly difficult to try and interpret meaning\par
from our data if we're just looking at the raw numbers,\par
or even in many cases the summary of the raw numbers.\par
The second reason is because we want\par
to communicate and narrate information\par
quickly to our audience.\par
It's far easier to get information from a chart\par
than it is from a table or from the raw data.\par
But in order to communicate efficiently,\par
we need to choose the correct chart,\par
and we can use things like highlighting or annotations\par
to get the message across more fluently.\par
The next reason we might want to visualize data\par
is to discover novel patterns and relationships\par
between variables.\par
We might have a very large data set and have some a priori\par
ideas about what relationships exist,\par
but until we start really examining\par
what variable is related to which other variable,\par
we won't really get to the very, very interesting questions.\par
So we can discover novel things by just visualizing our data.\par
The final reason to visualize data\par
is so that we can interact with the data.\par
This is for ourselves so that we can quickly\par
facilitate many, many charts at the click of a button,\par
but it's also so that we can communicate this information\par
to others so they can play around\par
with the data themselves.\par
So in this section, I'm going to use a worked example data set.\par
We're going to look at the New York City temperature\par
data from 1950 to 2014, and we're\par
going to compare that to the San Francisco temperature data set\par
from the same period of time.\par
The reason I'm using this example\par
is because it can highlight how we can address a raw data set\par
with a good workflow.\par
So the worked example we're going to go through\par
is the New York City and San Francisco temperature\par
data set where we have daily temperatures for each city\par
going from 1950 to 2014.\par
The reason we're going to use this data set\par
is because it highlights the workflow\par
that I want you to take forward with analyzing data.\par
So the first thing we have is raw data.\par
With this raw data, we can then start to ask questions\par
that we have of the data set.\par
So we have our initial questions.\par
For instance, a question we might have with this data set\par
might be over time from 1950 to 2014,\par
has it got warmer in New York City on average?\par
Has it got warmer in San Francisco on average?\par
After we formulate these initial questions,\par
we can start to visualize the data.\par
So this is our initial visualization.\par
We can use a combination of static charts.\par
These are charts that are just two-dimensional,\par
a simple graph.\par
Or we can use interactive charts,\par
and I'm going to show you some examples of interactive charts.\par
Once we visualize, we start to realize\par
that maybe we need to ask our questions in a different way,\par
so we start to refine our questions.\par
We might realize that we were looking at it in slightly\par
the wrong way, we need to improve\par
the way we look at things, or completely\par
novel questions might come up that we hadn't even\par
imagined beforehand.\par
Once we start to do this process over and over again,\par
we start to develop understanding\par
of what's going on.\par
Once we understand our data set more fully\par
and we realized the relationships that\par
exist between variables and the questions\par
that we can answer with that data set,\par
we can then communicate that information.\par
And again, we can communicate that information\par
with visualizations, and these visualizations\par
can be static visualizations or they can\par
be interactive visualizations.\par
So if the visualization process is at two points,\par
it's when we use our initial analysis\par
to see what do we have with these data, what\par
questions should we be answering,\par
and it's also at the final stage when\par
we want to communicate the information to our audience.\par
So here is the data set that we're going to be using.\par
Across the top are the column names.\par
As you can see, in this column, this is the date.\par
And so the very first entry in the data set\par
is the 1st of January, 1950, and we have three columns\par
here showing the temperature.\par
So we have in Fahrenheit, we have a maximum temperature\par
on that day, the average, the mean temperature on that day,\par
and the minimum temperature on that day.\par
And this happens to be the temperature on January the 1st\par
for New York City, and these three columns\par
are just spelling out January the 1st in month, year, and day\par
format.\par
We have the same data for every day for New York and San\par
Francisco, and it's a very, very large data\par
set because it goes all the way down here to around about\par
47,000 rows of data.\par
So I'll go back to the top.\par
From this, we could probably scroll through\par
and try to find some patterns in the data.\par
We might, for instance, want to look at all of the January 1sts\par
and get the data ordered in a way\par
that we could see if there were any patterns across time,\par
but this would be a very, very laborious process\par
and not very enjoyable.\par
We could potentially use summary tables,\par
but even with 12 months or summarizing it down\par
to just years, that's going to be a lot of data\par
and very hard to process immediately.\par
So this is a perfect data set where it makes far more sense\par
to visualize the data and interact with the data\par
so that we can get a sense of what's\par
actually going on with the temperatures\par
in each city across time.\par
So now we have our data.\par
We can start formulating our initial questions.\par
And with this data set, a very simple question\par
is, is it getting warmer in recent years in New York City,\par
and/or is it getting warmer in San Francisco?\par
Are they both getting warmer, are neither getting warmer,\par
or is just one of the cities getting warmer?\par
So one way we could do this is just pick one day of the year\par
and look at the temperature changes from year\par
to year on that day.\par
So here I've graphed the temperature\par
on July the 1st in New York City.\par
So you're seeing a graph.\par
On the bottom axis is the year 1950 all the way up to 2014,\par
and on the y-axis you can see the temperature,\par
and you're seeing three different lines.\par
The top line, the red line, is the maximum temperature\par
on each day going across that time period.\par
And the bottom line, the blue line,\par
is the minimum temperature.\par
And the line in the middle, the darker line,\par
is the average temperature, the mean temperature.\par
So we just picked one day, July 1, in the middle of the year,\par
and we can see it's relatively warm in New York in July.\par
It's around about 80 degrees Fahrenheit.\par
We can see that in the '50s and the '60s,\par
it was slightly higher on average than in the '70s, '80s,\par
and then it seems to have rebounded somewhat\par
and got a bit warmer '90s and 2000s.\par
We can also see that there's some individual variation.\par
For instance, 1989 or '88 looks like there was a big dip\par
and it was a particularly cold July day, whereas there\par
are some days where it's particularly warm,\par
such as in 2011, 2012.\par
This is fine.\par
It doesn't really answer our question.\par
We've just picked one random day of the year.\par
And so a better way to go about this\par
might be to try and develop an interactive visualization where\par
we can pick days at will and see how has temperature changed\par
over the entire time point on any day that we choose.\par
Here we have an interactive graphic.\par
This is the same chart that we just saw on the previous slide,\par
but this time we can actually interact with the data\par
and we can request of this interaction any day of the year\par
that we want.\par
I happen to have made this particular graphic using\par
a programming language called R, but there\par
are numerous different programming\par
languages this can be done in.\par
It can even be done with customized software.\par
So we have drop-down menus here on the left-hand side.\par
This is 1st of July.\par
This is our chart.\par
We can pick any date.\par
So for instance, let's pick the 1st of December,\par
like in the wintertime.\par
We get the temperature on that day across time.\par
And as we can see, initial look at this chart\par
tells us that this there's much more variability in temperature\par
in December.\par
We can see these spikes where the temperature max, min,\par
and mean is much higher than average,\par
and here where it's lower than average.\par
So it's very, very variable in December.\par
Back to our original question, is it getting warmer?\par
It's not that super obvious that there's any clear trend here\par
on December the 1st.\par
Let's pick another day.\par
For instance, let's pick December the 25th.\par
We can go to that day, have a look\par
at the temperature on that day.\par
Again, a lot of variation.\par
We can see that there's a lot of variation\par
in a very short period of time in the early 1980s here,\par
but it doesn't look that there's much difference in time\par
in an increase in the average temperatures over time\par
in New York.\par
So let's pick another month.\par
We could pick, for instance, let's pick April, a spring\par
month, and here's the graph for that day.\par
Again, we can see that there was a very hot day\par
in the early 1960s-- in fact, a couple of years in a row where\par
there was very hot days.\par
We had another very hot spike on this particular day\par
in the early 2000s.\par
So this is a great way of interacting with data, being\par
able to formulate ideas about the data,\par
discovering new relationships, new patterns.\par
We're taking our original raw data, we're filtering the data\par
and producing the same chart over and over again.\par
This would be incredibly laborious\par
if we were to do this just with a static chart.\par
But by interacting in a browser like this,\par
we can get so much more information much more quickly\par
that can either reject hypotheses, confirm hypotheses,\par
or tell us perhaps we should look at this relationship\par
in more detail.\par
Here is another line chart that I have made,\par
but this time we're comparing New York's weather\par
to another city's weather-- in this case, it's San Francisco.\par
Again, what we have on the x-axis\par
are the years going from 1950 to 2015\par
that we have data available for, and on the y-axis\par
we have temperature, again in Fahrenheit.\par
When comparing two lines like this,\par
it's very easy to make inferences immediately\par
about the difference between the two cities.\par
So here we can see that the darker red line\par
is New York and the lighter, paler line is San Francisco.\par
And it's quite clear that on July\par
the 1st, the day from which these data come from,\par
that there is typically very, very clear differences.\par
New York is a lot warmer in the summer than San Francisco.\par
If we were interested in trying to get some more\par
information about our question of interest, i.e.\par
is it getting warmer in more recent years,\par
time series such as these are very useful.\par
We can see here that looking just at the New York line,\par
there doesn't seem to be any trend.\par
If anything, the average mean temperature\par
was getting a little bit less in the 1980s.\par
If we look at the San Francisco line,\par
perhaps very moderately there is a slight upward trend.\par
We could go into more statistical analyses\par
to tease this out, whether there is\par
an upwards slight increase in mean temperature from 1950\par
to 2010.\par
But what this interactive chart enables us to do\par
is play around with the data and look on other days of the year.\par
For instance, here is December the 1st,\par
and immediately we can see that San Francisco tends\par
to be warmer than New York in the winter, in December.\par
We can also see that there's so much for fluctuation\par
in the daily temperature in New York, when\par
it's cold in the winter than there is in San Francisco.\par
When we look at December the 1st,\par
we might actually form an inference\par
that perhaps the average temperature\par
is getting a little bit warmer in New York over time.\par
The average temperature perhaps is getting slightly above 40,\par
where it was below 40 prior to 1980.\par
There doesn't seem to be much variability in San Francisco's\par
weather except perhaps there is this uptick after around 2011.\par
It seems to getting a little bit warmer.\par
So looking at these charts in different ways\par
on different days of the year give us different pieces\par
of information.\par
The other useful thing about interactive charts\par
are that we can start to change the y-axis dynamically.\par
For instance, let's look at the maximum temperature\par
on each day.\par
Again, there is not much variation on December\par
the 1st across years in the maximum temperature\par
on each day in San Francisco, but we see a similar pattern\par
to the average temperature with New York.\par
There seems to be an increasing number\par
of high maximum temperatures over time.\par
The problem with this kind of interactive chart,\par
though, is that we have to manually look\par
at one day at a time.\par
And there's a lot of variability inherent in just looking\par
at one day of the year at a time, so we need to come up\par
with some other charts and other ways of analyzing\par
and visualizing the data to refine our questions\par
and to start looking in more detail as to whether there\par
is this change over time.\par
So after our initial analysis of these data,\par
we have found for there are patterns between years,\par
there are temperature changes perhaps over time.\par
We've also seen that New York and San Francisco have very\par
different temperature dynamics.\par
But the problem with the data that we've been looking up\par
thus far are that we're looking at one day at a time\par
and it's very, very messy.\par
There's lots of variability.\par
So perhaps we need to refine our question.\par
We still are interested in is it getting warmer\par
in recent years in New York or San Francisco,\par
but let's not look at daily averages.\par
Perhaps we should use monthly averages.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 