{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So the small multiples were a very effective way\par
of communicating this monthly difference chart type,\par
but we could also put this into a interactive chart type.\par
So, again, with the same format, these\par
are the data for New York for July.\par
We can see, perhaps, there is this hint\par
that there is a trend here, perhaps,\par
that there are some warmer months in July.\par
Summers have been hotter in New York more recently.\par
Let's look at, for instance, the San Francisco data.\par
Change our city to San Francisco.\par
Dynamically, it pops up.\par
We've already investigated these data somewhat,\par
but this-- building a tool such as this\par
could be an incredibly good way of communicating the chart\par
that we like that communicates our data in the best\par
way to a wider audience.\par
We could send this link to collaborators, to colleagues,\par
to customers.\par
Let's have a look at another month.\par
We thought January, for instance,\par
had warmer than average months, and we can certainly\par
see that pattern here on the San Francisco chart.\par
I've also added in another city's data here.\par
Here's Chicago.\par
And Chicago is unsurprisingly-- it's\par
cold in January in Chicago, and it's incredibly variable.\par
There's not much extra information here.\par
If we maybe pick a summer month, such as June,\par
the variability is less, so it's not so clear\par
that it's getting warmer on average in Chicago.\par
These kind of interactive platforms\par
can have huge amounts of data behind them,\par
and this is a very simple illustration\par
of just filtering two or three cities in different months\par
of the year.\par
But we could build this into a very large dashboard that\par
contains multiple charts all linked together\par
that we could then send off and communicate\par
our findings or our analyses to anybody that we\par
wish to see the data.\par
So to summarize this brief example\par
that we have gone over, what we had was some raw data.\par
We had some initial questions that we\par
thought might be interesting.\par
Was it going to be warmer in recent years\par
in one city or another city?\par
After we had those initial questions,\par
we started playing around with the data,\par
visualizing it initially using daily examples,\par
and then we used monthly averages.\par
We saw some anomalies and some interesting patterns\par
that we thought perhaps would be worthy of further analysis.\par
That helped us to refine our questions.\par
We essentially got to realize that the best\par
way of illustrating these data would\par
be to look at difference from monthly averages.\par
And then, having developed that understanding,\par
we could then go into a much fuller analysis of our data.\par
The other thing we could do once we've\par
developed this understanding about data\par
is that we could communicate it to other individuals.\par
And there are numerous ways of communicating our data.\par
We could put static charts into reports\par
or into some other format, like PDFs.\par
Or we could use interactive graphs that we could share.\par
One way we could share our data would\par
be in a PDF or a static report with static charts.\par
Another way we can communicate our data\par
would be to create interactive tools, such as the charts\par
that we have looked to both initially visualize, as well\par
as create final visualizations.\par
And I'm about to show you one way that we could do this.\par
So just to illustrate one way that we could communicate\par
our information to other individuals,\par
as well as having these standalone interactive charts.\par
We could actually place interactive charts inside\par
of documents.\par
These could be read in the browser,\par
or they could even be shared in an interactive PDF format.\par
So all I've written here is what looks\par
like a report, some introductory information as to the data\par
that I am illustrating graphically.\par
Here's number one, New York weather\par
for any day of the year.\par
And we can actually-- inside of this interactive document,\par
we can just play around with the data--\par
as we did previously in the standalone document--\par
play with the data.\par
And so we can share this with whomever\par
we want, and they can find out information.\par
Here's the second chart that we looked at.\par
Let's look, for instance, at maximum temperatures.\par
We could pick another month, so on and so forth.\par
And finally, we have the third interactive chart\par
that we created down here.\par
So this is the July monthly difference in New York.\par
We could pick the July monthly difference in San Francisco\par
and so on and so forth.\par
So this is a really powerful way of communicating data.\par
Just from a single raw data set, we now\par
have a published report that we can share with anybody,\par
and they can play around with the data,\par
and they can find things to interest them\par
that they might want to analyze further or find patterns\par
that we hadn't even found in the data.\par
So the final thing I'd like to show you is this chart.\par
This is looking at San Francisco's 2014 weather\par
in historical context.\par
You'll remember from the small multiple charts\par
that we saw that the bars for 2014,\par
when looking at the monthly differences,\par
they were much higher for San Francisco in 2014,\par
suggesting that they had several months where\par
there was a lot of hot weather.\par
So what we have plotted here on the y-axis is\par
the temperature in Fahrenheit again\par
and every single day of the year across the x-axis--\par
we can see January, February, March.\par
But each data point on this graph, each part of the line,\par
is referring to each day of the year.\par
The big, squiggly, dark red line is the 2004 daily temperature\par
in Fahrenheit.\par
So we can see there's a lot of variability.\par
There were certain times of the year-- for instance, here,\par
April, going into May, this is particularly warm\par
here and again here.\par
Very warm April and May.\par
We can also see that October was particularly warm.\par
There was a very warm day right at the beginning of October.\par
What we can also see is that that squiggly red line\par
is above these bars here.\par
So hopefully you see that there's these bars here,\par
these shaded bars.\par
What these bars are referring to are the average temperature\par
at that time of year for San Francisco.\par
Those bars are actually 95% confidence intervals\par
that I calculated from the data, and that\par
means that we would expect that the average temperature\par
or the daily temperature of San Francisco,\par
95% of the time between 1950 and 2014,\par
would fall within those bars.\par
So it's immediately clear from this graph\par
that, actually, the 2014 data is far and away\par
above this confidence interval.\par
This is suggesting that 2014 was incredibly warm on average.\par
What you can also see on this graph are these other bars.\par
We can see here there's some bars that end down here,\par
and there's bars that end up here.\par
These, I have plotted the record maximum and minimum temperature\par
on each day of the year.\par
So what you can see here immediately--\par
there is no way that that squiggly red line tracking\par
the 2014 temperature is getting anywhere\par
near the record low temperatures.\par
But what you can see-- and I've already highlighted up here\par
with these dots, but there's another one here,\par
for instance-- this red dot here-- these\par
are times where the 2014 temperature has actually\par
equaled-- sorry-- or exceeded the record temperatures,\par
and we can see here, for instance, in this region,\par
January was a record warm year in San Francisco.\par
So this is a really attractive chart.\par
It illustrates our point perfectly.\par
We've taken all of our raw data and analyzed\par
it quite extensively, and we were\par
able to come up with this chart that illustrates a point where\par
2014 was, in many ways, a record warm year in San Francisco.\par
OK.\par
So I hope from this simple example\par
that you can see that it's quite straightforward to take\par
a large data set, formulate questions, visualize\par
initially, get a feel for the data,\par
get a feeling for whether your questions are intuitively\par
the right questions or not, work out\par
ways to refine the ways to visualize, and to find\par
new ways of developing and under fuller understanding\par
of our data set.\par
Once we have that, we can communicate the data.\par
We can create reports.\par
Or we can create standalone beautiful images\par
to communicate our point in a much more clear way than we can\par
from making small charts.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 