{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So here is the New York chart for temperatures in July.\par
We've, in this graph, averaged every single month,\par
and we're plotting the mean in the dark colored line,\par
the max in the red, and the minimum\par
in the blue of the temperature of each month averaged\par
across the entire time period.\par
So, again, looking at this graph,\par
it's a lot more stable than the daily temperature changes,\par
but it's still not really telling us\par
that much information.\par
It's just one month we picked.\par
We just picked July.\par
We just picked New York.\par
Also, there's still some variability.\par
It fluctuates up and down.\par
We could, perhaps, look at this chart\par
and notice that it's a little bit warmer, perhaps, right now\par
in the last two to three years.\par
And it was warmer in the 1950s.\par
But it's still not giving us that much information.\par
So a better way might be to look at all of the months\par
together in a small multiple format.\par
So here, for New York City, we have\par
plotted all 12 months-- January, February, March,\par
April on the top, May to August, September to December.\par
We're looking at the temperature, on average,\par
each month from 1950 to 2010.\par
And plotting it in this way-- we're using small multiples--\par
we can start to see some patterns more readily.\par
We can see, for instance, the temperature\par
changes across time from January to December,\par
getting warmer in the summer and colder in the winter,\par
obviously.\par
But what we can also see is that there's a lot more variability\par
in January, February, and December\par
than there are, for instance, in July\par
and August in the temperatures.\par
Using the small multiples, we can also\par
identify certain odd months-- for instance,\par
if we look at the October graph, we\par
can see here that there is a particular month\par
in the early 1970s that was colder\par
than the preceding and the month that came after it.\par
We can also see here in the October chart\par
that there was one particular month that\par
was higher than average compared to all the other Octobers.\par
We can see that December is very variable.\par
There is some variability in the 1950s, some variability here\par
in the 1989 where it's much lower than typical\par
for Decembers in New York.\par
We can even see in the February chart\par
that there's some variability here, for instance.\par
We can see that this particular point is higher than usual.\par
We can see that this point is lower than usual.\par
If we look in more detail comparing month to month,\par
we can see that, if we look at the very last few years--\par
for instance, February-- there seems to have\par
been a decline in temperatures.\par
The 2014 date was quite cold, as it was in the March of 2014,\par
as it was in the January of 2014.\par
So this chart gives us a little bit more information.\par
We can see that there are certain oddities to the data.\par
Certain months of certain years stand out.\par
It's not, though, a very good visualization\par
of our initial question of, is it\par
getting warmer in the more recent years\par
than in the previous years?\par
And so in order to answer that question,\par
we need to reconfigure the data into a different format.\par
OK.\par
So from plotting the monthly average of the temperature\par
data, now we have some idea that there\par
are some certain months that might be interesting to analyze\par
in more detail, but we haven't really got to our question of,\par
is it getting warmer?\par
So a better way to visualize the data might\par
be to take the average of each month from 1950 to 2014\par
and, from that average over the entire time\par
period for each month, then say, is the October of 1970\par
higher or lower than the average of all Octobers?\par
Is the October of 1971 higher or lower?\par
And plot those data.\par
By doing that, we can see whether things\par
are getting warmer or colder by month for each city.\par
So here, I have plotted the difference\par
from the average monthly temperature\par
for New York on the y-axis.\par
This time, we have the difference in Fahrenheit.\par
And across the x-axis is date, and each panel of the multiple\par
is a different month.\par
So we can quite--\par
I'll just do January initially.\par
We can see here that there are some months here that,\par
right at the start, in early 1950s,\par
these were warmer Januaries on average than the average New\par
York January.\par
We can also see across here that there\par
is a few warm months in January more recently,\par
but there's also some colder ones.\par
We can also-- looking at the data in this way,\par
we can see that January, February, and December have\par
this incredible variability that we've\par
seen on the previous graphs, but it's easier to see in this way,\par
especially given I've color coded\par
higher than average months in red\par
and lower than average months in blue.\par
If we look at, for instance, at July,\par
we could possibly see that there is some, perhaps,\par
hint that there have been warmer Julies on average\par
than there were before mid-1990s.\par
If we look at August, we might get that sense, as well.\par
This initial visualization is certainly\par
suggesting that perhaps these months are warmer on average.\par
If we look at March, we might get the same idea.\par
But we might just be confirming our preconceived bias,\par
and especially because the 2014 March was particularly cold.\par
So, again, June-- maybe if we look at this data\par
we would say that, prior to the late '80s, early '90s,\par
there were colder than average months,\par
and there's been a lot more warmer Junes since 1990.\par
It's a good initial way of narrowing down our data.\par
Perhaps we will now want to look at summer months\par
differently from winter months to address the question of,\par
is it getting warmer in New York?\par
OK.\par
Now we know that this type of chart,\par
the difference from the average monthly temperature,\par
is an effective way of visualizing\par
the data that we've collected.\par
I've now plotted the San Francisco data.\par
And this time, the pattern seems to be much clearer.\par
For instance, here's the January data.\par
We can see that there is this run of colder\par
than average Januaries that ended around late 1980s,\par
early 1990s.\par
And then we had this run of warmer than average Januaries.\par
Not every month has this pattern,\par
but we can see that there are a number of months\par
that do have this pattern.\par
Here are the Marches that are becoming\par
warmer and warmer on average, the Aprils, the Mays,\par
the Junes.\par
In fact, a lot of the summer months\par
are having this very, very strong pattern,\par
but we can also see it down here in, for instance,\par
in the Novembers, there's a run of warmer\par
than average Novembers in San Francisco.\par
It certainly seems, by doing this plot of the difference\par
from the monthly average, that we're\par
seeing that San Francisco does have much more warmer\par
months in recent years, whereas, in New York,\par
we only perhaps saw a hint of this pattern.\par
We're seeing a much stronger pattern in San Francisco,\par
and it's incredibly easy to see this\par
when we visualize our data with the small multiples.\par
We can also see from these data, for instance,\par
that January-- this is the 2000 bar here--\par
it was an incredibly warm January.\par
And in fact, looking at a number of the different months--\par
here's May, for instance-- the 2014 bar is one of the highest.\par
Here is October.\par
And so on and so forth.\par
We can even see-- over here, we can see the December one.\par
2014 in San Francisco seems to have\par
been an exceptionally high temperature\par
year compared to all of the averages for each month.\par
And this is going to suggest that maybe we\par
should look at the 2014 data in even more detail.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 