{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 -In this module, we're going to talk about dashboards.\par
Dashboards are a way of organizing data,\par
such that we can see multiple charts\par
and how they all are linked together.\par
Typically the dashboard is constructed\par
of several charts in a panel.\par
And those charts come from one data set but that data set\par
can change over time.\par
We could use different data sets to generate\par
the same types of charts.\par
The key thing about these dashboards\par
are that the multiple visualizations are all\par
organized together, such that they build up\par
a story that one chart by itself is not sufficient to tell us.\par
By having multiple charts organized\par
in an appropriate fashion we can build up\par
a very full picture of the underlying narrative\par
that we wish to communicate.\par
Another great feature of dashboards\par
is that they can be dynamic, meaning that they change\par
as data is entered into a system, such\par
that we can see how events unfold over time.\par
Well, we could manually change the data sets\par
to see if the relationships that we\par
see are true with one data set are also\par
true with another data set.\par
A very nice feature about dashboards\par
is that typically very, very elegant\par
and they have really attractive aesthetics.\par
Meaning that users are very much pulled\par
into wanting to use dashboards.\par
When we see just one chart sometimes\par
it can be a little bit boring.\par
But when we have multiple charts that will change dynamically\par
when we do something that really gets the user's attention\par
and it makes them want to interact with the data.\par
However, often with dashboards we\par
can get a little bit carried away,\par
and the key thing to remember is that usability comes first.\par
They need to be simple enough that the message is\par
not obscured, and that the content we wish to communicate\par
to others is very, very clear.\par
It shouldn't just look pretty.\par
It should be very functional.\par
And to know how to construct a dashboard most appropriately we\par
always need to have in the back of our minds\par
what purpose is this dashboard serving.\par
What am I trying to communicate with this data with these data?\par
So, let's have a little bit of a look at two quick examples\par
of dashboards just to get a sense\par
of what we mean by a dashboard.\par
And the first one I'm going to use is from USA.gov.\par
Here is an example of a very, very simple dashboard.\par
It's at analytics.USA.gov, and what you immediately\par
see is a huge number at the top of the screen.\par
And it says 173,506 people are on government websites now.\par
So immediately we understand what this is trying to tell us.\par
It's breaking down how many people\par
are on USA.gov right now.\par
Government sites.\par
But this is more than just one chart.\par
We can see there are multiple different panels here\par
and each panel is giving us different information.\par
But they're all associated with the same underlying data set.\par
So the main graph we see is conveying the main information\par
and that simply visits today total number of visits\par
broken down by hour.\par
So this is midnight to 1:00 AM.\par
2:00, 3:00, 4:00, 5:00 AM eastern time.\par
And then moving upwards through the morning into the afternoon.\par
And you may have noticed that the number of individuals\par
just changed.\par
And the reason why that happens is\par
because the data is being updated\par
every minute in real time.\par
So this is a dashboard that dynamically changes over time.\par
It conveys a main piece of information, the total number\par
of individuals, as well as breaking the data down\par
into subsections.\par
How many people visited by hour.\par
But there are even more subsections.\par
So on this panel over here on the right hand side,\par
you can see the total visit to each page.\par
And the page that's being most frequently visited right now\par
is NASA television and then there are two other NASA pages\par
and then there is a National Weather Service page.\par
And so in decreasing volume we get how many people\par
are on each page.\par
It's also interactive, such that we\par
can have a look over different time spans.\par
If we put this tab we would see which\par
pages have been visited the most in the last seven days.\par
And you can see the top one now is not NASA\par
so the NASA event is obviously something\par
that's happening today.\par
But over seven days it's NIH.gov.\par
Which is the main grant body for the National Institutes\par
of Health.\par
That happens to have been a deadline recently\par
for grant applications.\par
That's maybe why over the last seven days that's the highest.\par
And then there is further information\par
further down about what devices, what\par
browsers, what operating systems individuals come\par
to the government websites from.\par
This so this is in essence a dashboard.\par
It is the same underlying data set\par
but giving us lots of different pieces of information\par
in real time that we may wish to know about.\par
There's a main piece of information\par
and then subsections.\par
Here is a second example of a dashboard\par
and this is Google Trends.\par
Most people will probably use this at one time or another.\par
You can simply type in your search term,\par
and you get the history of that search term.\par
How many times has an individual searched for a particular term?\par
Let's just pick the New York Yankees as a term.\par
We type that in, and the dashboard\par
will dynamically update.\par
And again we have one major chart in the middle.\par
It shows over time, the number of hits for the search term\par
New York Yankees it's not an absolute number this\par
is actually a ratio metric.\par
We can actually see going from the first year\par
that this was counted which down here is\par
2005, all the way to 2015.\par
But the New York Yankees have actually got\par
searched fewer and fewer times, relatively speaking.\par
If we toggle off this button here\par
we get rid of news headlines that Google\par
uses to draw attention to specific features.\par
The very interesting thing about this chart\par
is we can see that there's periodicity.\par
The pattern is the same over each season\par
and this obviously corresponds to the baseball season.\par
And whether it peaks at the end such as here.\par
And over here this is most likely when the New York\par
Yankees made the playoffs.\par
And people are more interested in the New York Yankees\par
than they would be if they didn't make the playoffs.\par
The great thing about dashboards is that we can add data to it\par
and see how that affects information.\par
And so if we search for New York Mets, for instance,\par
it would update that information.\par
And you get another line on the graph.\par
And we can see that they're even less popular than the New York\par
Yankees.\par
With the one exception being right\par
now in 2015 where they made the World Series.\par
And they suddenly became very popular\par
in terms of search term history.\par
But this dashboard again is not just one chart.\par
There are also other charts.\par
So underneath Google adds this world map.\par
And we can see that baseball is most popular in North America,\par
unsurprisingly.\par
We can toggle over and hover over and get more information\par
about how popular exactly, and we\par
can look at particular countries or we\par
could hit this button here and look\par
for a particular cities that found the New York Yankees\par
the most interesting.\par
And so we can dynamically update our information over time.\par
And this is an in effect what the dashboard provides us with\par
is a way of interacting with the data,\par
such that we can get answers to questions\par
and compare and contrast different groups in a way that\par
would be very difficult if we were just forever just making\par
one chart at a time.\par
OK so we saw a couple of examples of very, very\par
simple dashboards.\par
I gave you a few insights as to why to use a dashboard,\par
but let me go over more explicitly exactly why we\par
would want to use a dashboard.\par
The first point that I would make is reusability.\par
We can reuse the same dashboard layouts\par
with multiple different data sets\par
and we don't need to keep updating our figures\par
and remaking figures by inputting different data sets\par
and using our programming or our other software to make\par
those charts.\par
Once we've made the template.\par
Well we need to do is feed in data\par
and we can reuse the dashboard to make charts\par
over and over again.\par
The second advantage I would stress\par
is that we can have linked visualizations.\par
What this means is that we can have\par
a look at one feature on one chart,\par
and simultaneously that feature will\par
highlight on another chart.\par
For instance, if we wanted to look at the Google\par
Trends in 2006-- how many hits were being made--\par
we could link that-- hovering over that point on the line\par
graph with the map to see how that\par
changes in 2006 versus over the entire time period.\par
Linked visualizations can be a very effective way\par
of bringing meaning to data.\par
A third advantage of dashboards are that we can adjust things\par
on the fly, we can adjust them as we go along\par
for particularly parameters.\par
For instance, if we're doing exploratory analysis\par
we may be building up a model, a statistical model of our data.\par
And we may want to think should we include this variable\par
or exclude this variable.\par
If we have a constant in a statistical algorithm,\par
perhaps we want to adjust that constant\par
and see how it affects the output.\par
If we were doing that over and over again,\par
remaking the chart every single time,\par
that would be very laborious.\par
It would slow down our learning process.\par
But by having a dashboard, we could just have one slider,\par
and we can just slide that value across.\par
Or we could have a menu by which we choose which values to input\par
or exclude.\par
And we see the results dynamically.\par
It's really, really useful.\par
Saves a lot of time.\par
A fourth valuable thing is the interactivity.\par
Now, in a previous module I showed you\par
some examples of interactivity, such as hovering over points\par
and getting information.\par
But with a dashboard, we get much more interactivity.\par
The user can really explore.\par
And it's increasingly the case that individuals\par
that are reading and the viewing data visualizations\par
immediately feel like they can hover over the visualizations\par
and get more information than just a static visualization.\par
So users are starting to expect interactivity.\par
They can learn faster by interacting\par
with the data themselves and the charts themselves.\par
And some individuals may find that viewing a visualization\par
in one form doesn't really helped\par
them learn the underlying concept,\par
but if they were able to manipulate the data so\par
that they could produce a different chart themselves,\par
it would help their own learning and acquisition\par
of the knowledge.\par
And therefore this interactivity feature\par
is a really useful feature of dashboards.\par
So why should we use a dashboard in my mind\par
there are two really strong benefits\par
of using a dashboard in two instances\par
where we want to use them.\par
The first, as I have said before,\par
is we have a narrative that we wish to communicate.\par
And the most effective way is to show multiple charts that\par
will communicate that point.\par
This would be seeing visualization\par
as a means of communication of an end product, i.e.,\par
We know our narrative we know the information we wish\par
to convey, and we're going to build a dashboard\par
to communicate that.\par
This by far and away is the most common usage of dashboards.\par
The second manner in which a dashboard is very, very useful\par
would be for exploratory analysis.\par
Now, there are many ways we could do exploratory analysis.\par
We could create multiple charts by ourselves,\par
try different variables in a static fashion,\par
or in our own statistical software.\par
However building a dashboard is often a, in the long run,\par
faster way of doing exploratory analysis\par
than it would be to do the just try\par
lots of different ways of looking at data\par
in a statistical package.\par
The downside is that the upfront work means\par
that we have to customize our own dashboard,\par
and it takes a little bit more time up front.\par
But it's much faster in the long run.\par
And so I'm going to show you some examples, or one\par
specific example of where a dashboard can\par
be used for exploratory analysis to develop\par
key insights into the relationships\par
between different variables and how we can both visualize\par
that information as well as do some data analysis\par
on those relationships.\par
The final thing I'd like to introduce to you about\par
dashboards is the idea of information hierarchy.\par
I've already-- previously with the USA.gov\par
and the Google Trends examples-- described\par
how the main information is up front visualized,\par
and then there are subpanels where we\par
see extra bits of information.\par
Going into more detail on particular aspects\par
of the underlying data set.\par
This is the idea of information hierarchy\par
typically there are some charts that\par
should be most pronounced, most prominent.\par
Probably the largest.\par
They should appear first.\par
These are the charts that when we have our users first\par
come to look at the visualization,\par
that they immediately get the idea that we're\par
trying to convey.\par
Then subsequent charts could be a subset of the data.\par
Filtering the data to show more complex patterns.\par
They should come after those initial charts.\par
And so when we're constructing a dashboard\par
we need to think how is my user going to interface\par
with this information.\par
What do we need up front so that they\par
understand what they're looking at\par
and what should come subsequently?\par
For instance, should all the information\par
appear on one screen?\par
Some people would argue that a dashboard should appear just\par
on one screen, but others would argue,\par
such as myself, that having information and charts\par
in other tabs, or on other clickable menus,\par
or information that would pop up on hovering\par
over particular charts or data points\par
is a very effective way of getting\par
more information across.\par
And all of this comes down to balancing design choices\par
with data choices, i.e., what looks most attractive?\par
What is going to entice people to interact\par
with the data versus what most effectively communicates\par
the data?\par
And really we should always be looking at that second feature\par
most prominently.\par
How can I most effectively communicate the data?\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 