{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 In this segment we'll discuss more topics\par
on probability, especially on conditional probability\par
and Bayes' formula, which will lay\par
the foundation for our discussion of doing analysis\par
and test on association.\par
So let's first define what is conditional probability.\par
Previously, we defined the probability of a event--\par
probability of A-- describe the fraction or proportion\par
of occurrence of observing A in the long run.\par
A conditional probability have notation\par
that looks like this-- probability of B given A.\par
So the definition of the conditional probability\par
of B given A is focusing our attention\par
on other occurrence where A has been observed,\par
and compute the fraction or proportion of B that also\par
occurred on those occurrence.\par
So in the probability calculation and definition,\par
we have something called a Venn diagram\par
to illustrate probability concept.\par
So here, let's assume this is the sample\par
space we discussed previously.\par
It contains all the possible outcomes\par
from a particular random phenomenon.\par
An event A is here, that have certain random outcome defined\par
within this event.\par
So we call it event A. And here, we\par
think the conditioning on event A already being observed--\par
we want to consider another event, called\par
event B which overlaps with the event A, but not entirely.\par
So the conditional probability of B\par
given A is the fraction of their overlap divided\par
by the total size of A. So what is the proportion of observing\par
B given A already observed?\par
So this, in terms of calculation,\par
equal to a ratio of probability of A and B--\par
recall the definition of this "and,"\par
which is the intersection between two random events--\par
over the probability of A. It is important to distinguish\par
between the event we're concerned about\par
and the condition for this conditional probability.\par
Because if you consider probability\par
of A condition on B, according to the definition,\par
it will equal probability of A and B have the same numerator,\par
but the denominator is different.\par
Because here, for this conditional probability,\par
we're concerned about the occurrence of A\par
within the scope where B already be observed.\par
So this gives you the definition of conditional of probability.\par
And by this definition of conditional probability,\par
we've got a new rule here.\par
Which is, remember, we had discussed\par
a rule concerned this intersection of two events, A\par
and B, when they are independent.\par
Here, this definition can be applied\par
to any combination of two events,\par
without requiring whether they're independent or not.\par
Therefore, we can take advantage of the definition\par
of conditional probability, and write out\par
the probability of the intersection\par
of two events equal to probability of A given B,\par
times probability of B.\par
So you look at how large B is and how large A is within B.\par
Or, alternatively, we can have probability\par
of B given A times probability of A.\par
This creates a contrast with the rule we\par
discussed in the previous module,\par
where given independence--\par
so if you have independence, probability of A and B\par
equal to the product of probability\par
of A and probability of B. And this equation\par
does not hold for any pair of A and B.\par
It only holds for a pair of A and B\par
when they are independent.\par
And here, if you look at this more general definition\par
or calculation for the intersection event of A and B,\par
given the conditional probability\par
you can derive another way of saying independence.\par
Because this suggests if you have independence--\par
probability of A equal to a probability of A given B,\par
and probability of B equal to probability of B given A.\par
This indicates, when two events are independent,\par
whether A will occur or not-- the probability of A occur\par
or not--\par
or change by the knowledge of B. And the probability of B\par
will occur or not, or change, given the knowledge of A.\par
So that's another way of us to formally define independence,\par
and formally numerically measure the amount\par
of dependence later on, using data and using\par
mathematical tools.\par
Now, let's consider a probability example\par
using the conditional probability and Bayes' formula\par
we just discussed.\par
Here, consider a family with two children.\par
And if we know that there is at least one girl in this family,\par
what is the probability that the other child is also a girl?\par
So similarly, in this statement, we have two events defined.\par
The first event is you observe at least one girl\par
in a family of two children.\par
The other event we are concerned about\par
is the other child is a girl.\par
So we want to consider the probability\par
of the second event given the knowledge of the first event.\par
Here, let's consider an example as an exercise\par
for conditional probability.\par
For a family with two children, assuming that we have knowledge\par
that there is at least one girl in this family,\par
we want to calculate what is the probability\par
that the other child is also a girl.\par
For this question, we assume that the probability of girl\par
in a random birth is 0.5.\par
So we say there's an equal probability of having a boy\par
and having a girl for any given birth in a family.\par
So the event we want to define--\par
let's say event A given event B--\par
is the conditional probability you want to find out.\par
Here, event B, according to the description of the problem,\par
is at least one girl.\par
And A arrow is the other child is also a girl.\par
Then we can calculate what is the probability of A and B\par
over probability of B. So this is\par
to use the definition of conditional probability.\par
In the space-- in the sample space of all the families\par
with two children, the gender of the children\par
have four possible combinations.\par
So you have girl, girl, the first child being\par
boy, the second child being a girl,\par
or the older child being a girl, the second child being a boy,\par
and the boy, boy.\par
The event B here-- at least one girl--\par
contains three outcomes.\par
And these outcomes become the probability of girl\par
equal to 0.5, which means equal to the probability of having\par
a boy.\par
So all of these combinations have the same probability--\par
the one out of four chance to have any of these combinations.\par
Therefore, it is easy to derive probability of B\par
equal to 3 over 4--\par
3/4.\par
Then we can see what is the probability of A given B, then.\par
The probability of A given B also\par
requires the probability of A and B.\par
So here, probability of A and B equals probability\par
of having the outcome.\par
So probability of A and B is here.\par
So this is A and B. So it's a probability of outcome\par
of having both girls.\par
So this is 1/4.\par
Combining the two parts we just computed--\par
that the probability of B equal to 3/4,\par
and the probability of A and B equal to 1/4,\par
we can calculate the conditional probability of A given B.\par
So this will give us 1/3.\par
So here, we have 1/3.\par
This creates a very interesting paradox.\par
Event A is stated as the other child is a girl.\par
If the other child is specified as one\par
of the children in this family, and we're\par
concerned about the probability of that child is a girl or not,\par
the probability of that child being a girl\par
is 50% according to this unconditional probability.\par
The knowledge provided by knowing B, at least one\par
of the children is a girl, seems to have reduced the probability\par
from 1/2 to 1/3.\par
This is counter-intuitive, because how\par
can the knowledge about having at least one girl lower\par
the chance of the probability that the other child is a girl?\par
The reason for this similarly paradox\par
is because this definition of an event is not really an event.\par
The definition of the probability event\par
should stand alone as a collection of outcomes.\par
Here, this definition of event does not\par
have a clear definition of what outcomes should\par
be included in this event.\par
It depends on the statement regarding\par
this random phenomenon on the previous event, which\par
is event B. So you're referring that you\par
have at least one girl-- you observe one child\par
and that child is a girl-- what's the probability\par
that the other child is a girl?\par
So this is a very weak description\par
of probability event, and it does not really\par
constitute, strictly speaking, a definition of event\par
as a collection of random outcomes.\par
Another way of saying the same thing\par
is conditioning on that we know that at least one\par
girl in this family, what is the probability that\par
both are girls?\par
This is a better definition of this event in question.\par
It means the same thing.\par
So for a family with two children,\par
if we know there is at least one girl in this family,\par
what is the probability that both children are girls?\par
It's saying the same thing.\par
But here, the definition both are girls\par
gives you a precise definition of outcomes in this event.\par
That is, the outcome with both girls and both births.\par
So here, the probability of this outcome is 1 over 4--\par
1/4.\par
Conditioning on B-- at least one girl--\par
the probability of GG given B will be 1/4 over 3/4--\par
gives you 1/3.\par
So here you can see that the knowledge\par
of having at least one girl in this family\par
updated the probability of having\par
both children being girls in this family from 1/4 to 1/3.\par
So the information on at least one child in this family\par
increased the overall probability\par
of having two girls in the family.\par
So this is a more correct definition,\par
or correct probability calculation\par
for this particular probability exercise.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
Downloads and transcripts\par
Handouts\par
}
 