{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 This segment is concerned about association\par
between categorical variables summarised\par
using a two-way table.\par
A two-way table summarizes the joint occurrence\par
of two categorical variables.\par
Let's look at the same table we discussed in a previous module\par
regarding how age is associated with internet use.\par
For the purpose of this example, we've\par
created this hypothetical table based\par
on data from the Pew Research Center\par
on internet use from 2013.\par
We created categories for age to create a categorical variable\par
even though age is a quantitative variable.\par
It's only for the illustration purpose of this example.\par
So here, using the same proportion reported in the Pew\par
Research Center report, I created numbers corresponding\par
to each category.\par
So the 48 here represents that there are 48 survey respondents\par
who reported their age being between 18 to 29,\par
and they use internet.\par
So the one thing we usually add to a two way table\par
is the total of each row and total of each column.\par
So here it's very easy to see that when\par
I created this hypothetical number, to make our discussion\par
easy, I used rounded up numbers for the rows\par
and rounded up number for the columns.\par
So here it says out of this hypothetical example,\par
there are 50 individuals simulated between age 18 to 29,\par
100 for the next age group, another 100 for 50 to 64,\par
and 50 for 65 plus.\par
And these two numbers correspond to the total number\par
of individuals who report they use internet and do not\par
use internet.\par
One thing this total row and total column have in common is,\par
the total number reported in the total row\par
and the total column should add up to the same number,\par
indicating the total number of occurrences\par
observed in the entire table.\par
So here that number is 300.\par
You can easily check.\par
You have 300 here and 300 here.\par
Looking at these numbers, we see certain association patterns.\par
The association pattern we see may be due to random chance\par
from our observation because we used\par
a random sample of 300 individuals instead\par
of the entire population.\par
It could also indicate there is a true association between age\par
and internet use.\par
In order to investigate that, we need\par
to think about what is the probability in relation\par
to association.\par
And association is actually the absence or departure\par
from independence.\par
So it's the absence of independent patterns.\par
Consider this table indicating that we\par
want to study the joint probability distribution of two\par
variables, or want to study the probability of joint occurrence\par
of values of 2 variables.\par
Let's say here we want to study the probability of being\par
in the age group 18 to 29 and they use internet.\par
Here when I say the probability of being in this category,\par
I didn't mean that here is a random participant,\par
that randomly we assume an age group\par
and randomly decide whether he will use internet or not.\par
It is assumed that there is a population of individuals,\par
a certain group of individuals who use internet,\par
and a certain group of individuals\par
who do not use internet, and they distribute randomly\par
in the population.\par
The probability here concerns that if you randomly\par
select an individual from the population,\par
whether we will observe an individual belonging\par
to this category.\par
So this is a probability.\par
It's really describing the population proportion\par
of individuals who belong in this category.\par
On the margin here, you have the probability of 18 to 29.\par
So if I define this as event A, this as event B,\par
this will be event A. This is called\par
the marginal distribution, meaning\par
that this distribution of the variable\par
defines only the margin of this table.\par
To fully define this marginal distribution,\par
we need to have probability values\par
for all possible outcomes for this variable.\par
So therefore, now you will have four probability variables\par
for this particular categorical variable, age group.\par
And these four values will add up to 1\par
because they contain all of the possible outcomes\par
of the survey of adults.\par
The other margin concerns internet use.\par
So you have the probability of use internet,\par
and the probability of do not use internet.\par
For simplicity, I define this as being\par
1 minus the probability of use, because this variable only\par
has two possible outcomes.\par
Now after discussing how we define probability,\par
let's think about from data.\par
From data we can estimate the marginal distribution,\par
which does not really use any information\par
from inside the table.\par
So the information here can be derived using the total row\par
and total column.\par
Because of what we have previously for the age group,\par
we have 50 for the first one, 100 for the second one,\par
100 for the third one, and 50 for the fourth one.\par
So here, 50 divided by 300 gives you approximately 17%.\par
So that's where the 0.17 comes from.\par
So here I summarize using data--\par
I summarize the marginal distribution using data\par
by their proportions.\par
These are only estimates, because using data\par
will not be able to fully recover the choice using\par
part of the population.\par
But as we have more and more information,\par
we will have better accuracy as we previously discussed.\par
So now we have the estimate in marginal distribution.\par
The question is, can we recover the probability\par
of the joint occurrence of this age group and internet use\par
using the marginal distribution?\par
The answer is when you have independence,\par
you can derive that probability.\par
The reason for that is we have the probability of a and b\par
is equal to the probability of a times the probability b.\par
So here if we do not actually know\par
what has been observed inside the table,\par
we only have the marginal distributions,\par
under the assumption of independence,\par
we have this equation, which means the question mark here,\par
the probability we desire to find out\par
can actually be calculated using 0.17 times 0.85.\par
This calculation relies on the assumption of independence.\par
Now that we know what we can expect under independence,\par
we can use that to study the relation between two\par
categorical variables.\par
Before doing that let's have some notations.\par
Let's assume that we're looking at a variable x and variable y,\par
and for this case, they're both categorical.\par
Association is the departure from independence,\par
meaning that certain values of x occur more frequently\par
with certain values of y.\par
So the definition of this is, for example, x is\par
equal to a certain value here.\par
Let's just say x is equal to value 1.\par
Given y is equal to value 2, by saying association, meaning\par
that certain values x occur more frequently with certain values\par
of y, that would mean that this probability may be greater\par
than the probability of x equal to a value of 1,\par
conditioning on y takes another value.\par
If there is no association, there's\par
independence, meaning that if x and y are indepedent--\par
previously we discussed if these two are independent,\par
what we have is the probability of x equal to value 1\par
given y takes value 2, if x and y are independent,\par
this will simply equal x is equal to value 1\par
if you have independence.\par
The same thing here.\par
So if x and y are independent, this value\par
is also equal to the probably of x is equal to a value of 1.\par
Therefore the probability of x to take a certain value\par
does not change with when y changes from one value\par
to another.\par
So this is x, y independence.\par
Association departs from this trend\par
when the probability of x taking a certain value\par
varies from one value of y to another value of y.\par
So this is our formal definition of association\par
that can be checked using conditional probability\par
and joint occurrence.\par
Therefore no association is equal to independence.\par
Association is equal to departure from that\par
and therefore, we can carry out independent testing\par
onto a table.\par
Now we're ready to discuss independence test\par
in a two-way table.\par
We want to study association between two variables,\par
so we're looking for evidence of association.\par
Here the null hypothesis we're trying to collect evidence\par
against in this test is claiming that x,y should be independent.\par
Therefore we need to come up with statistics that\par
actually measure association.\par
That measure is actually an indirect measure of association\par
because it measures departure from independence.\par
It calculates how the observed data\par
is inconsistent from the independence structure\par
if independence is true.\par
It is called the chi-square test for independence\par
in a two-way table.\par
The null hypothesis is a special pattern\par
where the probability of x equal to value of 1,\par
is equal to the marginal probability of x\par
equal to value 1, conditioning on y equal to value 2.\par
So the conditional probability of x given any value of y\par
is always equal to the marginal probability.\par
Because of this, the probability of x equal to value 1\par
and y equal to value 2 is equal to the product\par
of x equal to v1 and probability y equal to v2.\par
And this is interesting because this is a joint probability.\par
So recall that we have this two-way table that\par
looks like this.\par
The left-hand side of this probability,\par
the left-hand side of this equation, this part,\par
is the proportion of outcome inside a two-way table,\par
whereas the right-hand side of this equation has two parts.\par
One part comes from here, the marginal distribution.\par
The other part from the other marginal distribution.\par
So to indicate that, when you have independence,\par
the joint distribution, the pattern inside of the table,\par
can be fully decided by the marginal distribution\par
of this two-way table.\par
That is the special pattern for the data,\par
the special pattern for the joint distribution of two\par
variables.\par
Under the null hypothesis is a special pattern\par
indicating independence.\par
So the pattern implies that there's no association\par
between the two variables.\par
Any event decided by the value of x, and any event\par
B decided by the value of y, satisfies this probability\par
rule.\par
So the model indicated by this null hypothesis\par
of non-association can give us the probability\par
of each cell in the table using the marginal probability here,\par
multiplying together, and suggests\par
what should be the probability inside the cell.\par
After this calculation, we're ready to compare whatever\par
is stated in the null hypothesis here with the pattern,\par
observing real data.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 