{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 So how do we compare the patterns suggested\par
by the probability model of the independence\par
and the actually observed data in our table?\par
The test statistic for this chi-square test\par
is defined as a chi-square statistic\par
that takes sum over all the cells in the table.\par
So here, let's just assume that we have a small table here.\par
In our case, it's a three by two table.\par
Well, there are a total of six cells.\par
So one, two, three, four, five, and six.\par
So for this example, we have six cells.\par
For each of the cells, we define an observed O1\par
and the expected value, E1.\par
And we can do this for the rest of the table.\par
Within each cell, we compare the observed value, OI,\par
which is the value we have in the table\par
generated using real data, minus the expected value, EI.\par
And here, the expected value of EI\par
also uses information from real observed data.\par
But only through the marginal distribution of the tables.\par
We compare their difference using their squared difference,\par
because the difference is on a scale of data.\par
So you can you imagine that for a cell that\par
is high in probability, then the observed value will be large,\par
the expected value will also be large.\par
It's on the same scale as the size of the cell.\par
We want to normalize that so that the information\par
from different cells are used more or less equally.\par
So that normalization is done by putting the expected value\par
on the denominator.\par
There is a certain mathematical foundation for doing this.\par
Doing this will give us a very easy to work with distribution.\par
So we will not discuss the entire detail\par
how we derive this equation, but the purpose\par
of having EI on the denominator is trying to make information\par
from different cells more or less contributing more or less\par
equally.\par
So here, this is the information we can summarize\par
from individual cells.\par
We combine the information from different cells into a sum.\par
So here I will use number a C indicating the number of cells.\par
And this gives us the chi-square statistic.\par
So we know here it's very easy.\par
We know that how to get the observed one.\par
So this will be, for example, the first cell, we have 48.\par
OK.\par
That's the number of individuals in the age group between 18\par
and 29 and use the internet.\par
And how do we get the expected value then?\par
From our real data, we estimate here the margin\par
of distribution.\par
The margin of distribution will help us\par
in deriving the expected value for this equation.\par
Recall that from our real data, we\par
estimated that the proportion in the population for age 18 to 29\par
is approximately 17%.\par
So this estimate is derived from the two-way table\par
in the marginal distribution of age group.\par
It is also derived that the probability\par
of use internet or the population\par
proportion of individuals who use internet is 85%.\par
Combining these two values, we have the probability\par
of 18 and 29 and use internet, the joint probability\par
will be 0.17 times 0.85.\par
Given the joint probability estimated\par
and their independence, how do we get the expected value?\par
The expected value is actually we\par
take the number of individuals, the letter n, the sample size--\par
that is the total number of occurrence\par
we observe in our data--\par
and multiply it by a probability of a cell.\par
And here the probability of a cell\par
is estimated using independence model.\par
Therefore, we have 0.17 and 0.85.\par
And n here, from the previous two-way table, equal to 300.\par
So this calculation will give us the expected value\par
for the cell.\par
It equals 42.5.\par
The observed value is 48 from the data.\par
Under the model of independence, and utilizing\par
the marginal distribution from the data and the sample size\par
from the data, we calculated the expected number\par
under independence is 42.5.\par
We can compute its difference using this equation.\par
And this information will be contributed to the calculation\par
of the chi-squared statistic.\par
And we'll repeat this whole process throughout the table\par
to gauge the overall evidence in support of association\par
against the independence.\par
So we repeat the same calculation for every cell,\par
and that will give us the expected\par
value under independence.\par
One thing I would like to point out here\par
is that if you look at the number here,\par
the first thing you notice is that they do not necessarily\par
need to be integers or rounded up numbers as observed values\par
from real data.\par
The reason is that this is the expected value\par
from the probability model estimated under independence.\par
Therefore, it does not have to equal to a real number\par
because it is an average taken over every possible occurrence\par
under the probability model.\par
The second thing we notice is that the values\par
within the same row add up to the same marginal\par
distributions.\par
And the values within the same column\par
also add up to the same marginal distribution.\par
This is due to the computation we carried out\par
given the marginal distribution, because we generated\par
this value assuming the marginal distribution\par
as a true probability model for the individual variables\par
in the rows and in the columns.\par
And because of that, the expected value\par
calculated using the joint probability\par
will give you the same marginal distribution.\par
Then we calculate the difference between expected and observed.\par
Here, 48 is observed minus expected.\par
93 minus 85 as expected.\par
And one thing you can see that the expected value for use\par
internet from these two age groups are the same.\par
They're both 85.\par
This is because the modern distribution\par
that we had here from the previous slide are the same.\par
They're both 100.\par
So if there's independence between age and internet use,\par
you have 100 individuals between 30 and 49 years old,\par
you have 100 individuals between 50 and 64,\par
the expected number of internet users within these two age\par
groups will be the same, equal to the percentage\par
of internet users in the entire population,\par
which is 85% from the previous slide.\par
So you have 85 here.\par
The real data departure from the pattern\par
that there are more individuals between age 30 to 49 that use\par
internet than those from 50 to 64, indicating an association.\par
So the difference really captures\par
evidence about association.\par
Then we take these differences, and you\par
can see that some cells are positive,\par
indicating that the real value, the observed value,\par
have indicated more occurrence in the cell\par
under the assumption of independence.\par
Some cells indicate negative values.\par
That is, the observed value is much lower than\par
expected under independence.\par
So in this case, is the 18 to 29 age group,\par
there are more internet users than expected under randomness\par
while for the older group, the 65 plus group,\par
the actual number of internet users\par
is lower than if the internet user is randomly distributed\par
in all the age groups.\par
So this is sort of complying with our understanding\par
of internet use distributed in age group.\par
Combining all this, we have a chi-square statistic\par
equal to 38.34.\par
This is to show you how it is done so you can actually\par
use your calculator to verify these results\par
from the previous table.\par
But 38.34 will be a meaningless number\par
if you do not know how it should be compared to.\par
In the chi-square test, this value\par
should be compared to a chi-square distribution.\par
The chi-square distribution is derived\par
for this type of statistic under the null hypothesis.\par
Assuming the null hypothesis is true,\par
assuming there actually is independence between the two\par
variables, and the values can still\par
depart from the independent pattern due to chance,\par
some cells have positive departures,\par
some cells have negative departures.\par
We studied the probability distribution\par
of these departures, and we also studied how these departures\par
contribute to the chi-square statistic, which\par
is the sum of the square departures normalized\par
by the expected value.\par
Combining all this information together,\par
we derive the chi-square distribution\par
for chi-square statistic under a null hypothesis.\par
So this is the distribution that we\par
will use for this particular example controlled\par
by the size of the two-way table.\par
And here you can see that under the independence probability\par
model assumed between age group and internet use,\par
the value of the statistics should concentrate around\par
this area.\par
So you have most of the occurrences observed\par
between 0 and 10 with a tail that goes down vertical to zero\par
as to the value of the statistic increases.\par
So the x-axis is the possible value\par
of the chi-square statistic under the null hypothesis\par
of independence between two variables.\par
Now, we think about we have 38.34\par
for this particular example, and which is approximately here.\par
And you can see that if it is indeed that age and internet\par
use are independent, it is quite unlikely for us\par
to observe what we have observed in this distribution.\par
So this is a true distribution for the chi-square statistic\par
if the two variables are indeed independent from each other.\par
Given the sample size, given the marginal distribution,\par
we have this distribution for the statistic.\par
The actual statistic computed on real data\par
indicates that it is quite unlikely for us\par
to have observed such a large value under this distribution.\par
This will be used as evidence against independence\par
and suggests association.\par
Now we have a significant result from a chi-square test\par
of independence.\par
The next question is, how much is the association?\par
What is the level of association between the two variables?\par
These are important questions, because as a we have discussed\par
in the previous module, having a significant test result\par
does not indicate a strong departure\par
from the null hypothesis.\par
This is because the result of a significant test\par
depends on the sampling distribution of the test\par
statistic decided by the true size of the effect\par
and the sample size.\par
And here, given the joint probability model\par
between x and y, given the true association between x and y,\par
the test statistic center actually\par
moves with sample size.\par
So the more information you have,\par
the more observations you have, the more likely\par
you're going to also detect an association.\par
The p value or the association test statistic\par
will not tell you the extent of the association\par
between x and y.\par
The true level of the association\par
is only decided by the probability\par
relation between x and y and does not depend on sample size.\par
So this creates a contrast between the test\par
statistic, here, and the true level of association.\par
To gauge the true extent of association,\par
we can use other statistics such as odds ratio,\par
as we have discussed previously, to show\par
the extent of association.\par
They estimate the level of association\par
defined by the statistics.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 