{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1251\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1058{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.16299}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\f0\fs22\lang9 This segment we will discuss a measure\par
called analysis of variance in the application\par
of studying association between a categorical variable\par
and a quantitative variable.\par
Let's go back to the example we discussed\par
in the previous module when we have a discussion on how\par
we display and summarize association\par
observed between a categorical variable\par
and a quantitative variable.\par
Here the categorical variable is the education received\par
by survey respondents, or in this matter is the individuals\par
studied by a survey conducted by the Bureau of Labor Statistics.\par
The quantitative variable is the weekly income.\par
In this plot, we created and discussed\par
in the previous module we displayed\par
the mean weekly income from each of the educational category.\par
So that's one way of showing the distribution of the difference\par
of the quantitative variable between different categories\par
defined by the categorical variable.\par
So in studied association between a categorical variable\par
and a quantitative variable, we're\par
concerned about how the distribution of income\par
changes or varies from one category to another.\par
And these categories are defined by this categorical variable.\par
Here, let's think about this example.\par
These will be simplified by considering only five\par
observations from three categories.\par
So now let's consider a look at three educational categories--\par
people who didn't finish high school,\par
people who have a high school diploma,\par
and people who received more education than high school.\par
For each of those category, I simulated five individuals.\par
And also I simulated income levels\par
for these five individuals.\par
Actually to help us with our discussion on analysis\par
of variance, I created the following simpler example\par
motivated by the example we just saw on the previous slide.\par
So here we consider only three categories on education--\par
the less than high school or the people\par
who didn't receive a high school education,\par
who didn't finish high school, people\par
who have high school education, and people who have more\par
than a high school education.\par
For each of the categories, I simulated five individuals.\par
And basically I simulated their weekly income levels\par
within each category according to the mean of that category.\par
And I assumed that these individuals\par
have similar variability within the category.\par
One thing that we can see that if we do not\par
look at a category, meaning that we ignore the education level\par
information, it is equivalent to say that let's\par
line the points together and look at how\par
they distribute on the y-axis.\par
So we see a lot of variation here.\par
If we actually put them into categories\par
and only look at within categories--\par
here you have five individuals here, five individuals here,\par
and five individuals here.\par
The reason why you don't see five points\par
is sometimes they overlap when the points are\par
too close to each other.\par
So here you can see that the variability\par
within each category is much smaller than when\par
you put all of the points back to the y-axis.\par
So the contract is here.\par
You ignore the education information\par
and only look at overall viability in y\par
or the variability in the weekly income along the y-axis.\par
This plot shows that if you look within each category\par
and look at the variability within each category,\par
you see less variation within.\par
The other thing you see from this second plot\par
is the categories demonstrate a different trend\par
in the center of the distributions.\par
So you would not only have variability\par
within each of the categories between individuals that\par
received the same level of education,\par
you also have that the center, the mean,\par
of the distribution within the category of less\par
than high school education, lower than high school\par
education, the center of this distribution\par
is much lower than that of the individual who received\par
a high school education.\par
And the mean of this distribution\par
is also lower than the mean of the individuals who\par
received higher than high school education.\par
So this is one way analysis of variance trying to study.\par
They're trying to study how much the variability in y,\par
how much variability in this quantitative variables\par
can be explained by between group differences\par
and within group differences.\par
So analysis of variance concerns the total variation\par
in y, the quantitative variable.\par
So want to understand the sources of variation\par
contributed to one variable that we're particularly concerned\par
about.\par
To explain the variation in y, we consider a variable x.\par
Here the variable x is a categorical variable.\par
We'd like to know how much variation in y\par
can be explained by x.\par
Here, this is something that we say\par
a lot in statistical analysis is the variation\par
y be explained by x?\par
And here I can illustrate a little bit more\par
using the plot we just saw.\par
Before we go on, I just emphasize on one thing,\par
that we're trying to study how much variation in y\par
can be explained by x.\par
What we do not mean by this statement is even\par
when the variation in y can be well explained\par
by x, that still does not lead to the establishment\par
of a causal relation between y and x.\par
Here, what we can conclude is our y and x are associated.\par
The knowledge of x can help us predict y better.\par
So now what do we mean by explaining variation,\par
or another way, predicting y?\par
So let's just say here we have variable y.\par
We want to be able to predict the weekly income\par
of a random individual sampled from population.\par
We collect information of 15 individuals.\par
Before we have knowledge about their education level,\par
before we can utilize the information provided\par
by education level, all the information we have\par
are these 15 values we collected.\par
So this is our random sample.\par
If here comes a random individual in the population,\par
one who gives the best prediction we can have\par
for this future individual using the information we have\par
on this observed individual, the best thing we can try\par
is the mean of these individuals,\par
which is around here.\par
So that's where our best fit is given these 15 individuals.\par
If we actually have the information about x--\par
so now our question is, how can we predict y given x?\par
Given x means that we want to constrain our attention\par
or focus on our contention within the categories defined\par
by x.\par
So same thing as when we discuss the conditional probability.\par
Given x mean you consider individuals fall withing\par
each of these categories.\par
If this future individual will have knowledge\par
about his education level, we then\par
can put this individual in one of those categories\par
according to that value.\par
So assuming that this individual actually\par
have high school education, we will focus on this category.\par
And our best prediction using data available to us\par
will be based on those five observations instead\par
of these 15 observations, because now we\par
have more information concerning this individual.\par
And we know that this individual is\par
more similar to an individual in this group\par
because they have the same education\par
level than to this two group of individuals,\par
because they have different education levels.\par
So our prediction will be the mean\par
of these five points for individual\par
with more than a high school education here,\par
for individual with high school education,\par
and here for individual with less than high school\par
education.\par
If these 15 points can help us learn about predicting y,\par
we can see here, this is the best prediction\par
we can have for any individual if we do not\par
use education information.\par
So you can see that there are a lot of prediction errors\par
as defined as difference between the actual observed value\par
and the predictions.\par
So here you can see these points,\par
that they all individually different, due to random error.\par
And they have higher difference to this line\par
than what we will see for the inference conditional x.\par
So now we have information from x.\par
Then the prediction errors for this exercise\par
is the difference you can see from here\par
to the center of this category, or of this point to the center\par
of this category, of this point to the center of this category.\par
Well even though I do not do the actual numerical calculation\par
here, but I'm very confident that the prediction errors are\par
much smaller in scale than the prediction error\par
we can see in this plot.\par
So this would mean that the variation\par
in y, the departure from the center of the distribution\par
observed in y are reduced by considering variation only\par
within the categories.\par
The informational acts explained the difference\par
between categories.\par
So that means that the education level can be used to explain,\par
not in a causal way, but can be used\par
to estimate the difference, on average, between the people who\par
receive less than a high school education and people\par
who receive a high school education.\par
So it explains why this group of people\par
is making more income on a weekly basis than individuals\par
in this.\par
So the education level explains that difference.\par
And also here.\par
What the educational level cannot explain,\par
what the variation cannot be explained by x is the variation\par
within.\par
Because if you look within the category,\par
individuals here all have the same education level.\par
So whatever variation they have in this category cannot be\par
explained by the education level.\par
So this analysis of variance separates the source\par
of variation, separates the part of variation in y into two\par
parts, the parts between groups and the part within groups.\par
End of transcript. Skip to the start.\par
  Previous\par
}
 